 MATAMOROS ,  Mexico  _ In one of  General Motors ' sprawling auto parts plants in a  Matamoros  industrial park just south of the  Rio Grande , thousands of Mexican workers earn  $ 1  to  $ 2  an hour producing instrument panels and steering wheels for  GM  cars and trucks. Until just a few years ago,  U.S.  workers earning close to  $ 22  an hour at  GM 's  Delphi East  factory in  Flint ,  Mich. , made the instrument panels. And those at a plant to the north in  Saginaw  produced the steering wheels.  GM 's shift of production from  Flint  and  Saginaw  to this border city facing  Brownsville ,  Texas , was part of a sweeping 20-year transfer of its  U.S.  auto parts industry across the border. Since  1978 ,  GM  has built more than 50 parts factories in  Mexico , which today employ 72,000 workers, making its parts subsidiary,  Delphi Automotive Services ,  Mexico 's largest private employer. Other companies from the  United States  have, of course, also moved plants to  Mexico .  Ford Motor Co.  has 11 parts factories in  Mexico ;  Chrysler  has none.
The transfer of production to  Mexico  and other countries has become a focus of the  United Automobile Workers  strike against  GM , which began at a stamping plant in  Flint  and at the  Delphi East  factory.  UAW  officials in the  United States  have accused  General Motors  of " putting  America  last." In  Mexico , where the strike has idled 23,000 workers at two dozen  Delphi  plants,  Delphi  managers have told workers that the union is demanding that  GM  close its Mexican plants and return its parts production to the  United States , said  Juan Villafuerte Morales , a union officer representing workers at  Delphi 's  Matamoros  factories. The plants have been partially idled by the strike in  Flint . " Most of our workers understand that they're doing work that used to be done in  United States  factories because managers explain that to them on the plant floor,"  Villafuerte  said. " And let me tell you, the jobs are very welcome here."  GM  says that transferring production south has enabled it to cut costs in labor-intensive assembly production, compete more effectively against  Ford ,  Chrysler  and Japanese automakers, and also to keep engineering and other operations in the  United States .
The financial advantages of producing parts in  Mexico  are substantial, and some economists say that the North American Free Trade Agreement, which went into effect in  January 1994 , has only increased them. Many plants have no union, and those that do are represented by the  Confederation of Mexican Workers , which is controlled by  Mexico 's ruling  Institutional Revolutionary Party  and works with the government to avoid strikes. The union has kept the  UAW  at arm's length. Thousands of Mexican workers at  GM  and other U.S.-owned factories live in dirt-floor shacks in slums ringing the industrial parks where they work. Yet many say that they are delighted to have their jobs, which often start at  Mexico 's minimum wage of  $ 3.40  a day but can pay experienced workers several times that. A  Delphi  spokesman said the company would in the next 18 months help 7,000 employees buy their own homes. " It's a good job," said a 23-year-old woman who earns  $ 1.36  an hour painting buttons on car radios at Deltronicos de  Matamoros , a  Delphi  plant.
The woman, who asked that her name not be used during an interview at her one-room wood-frame shed in a gritty, wind-blown  Matamoros  squatters' settlement, said the choking smell of solvents at her work station gave her headaches. " It's difficult work," she said. " But I'm glad to have it." ( STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS ) nn  GM  opened its first factory in  Mexico  in  1935 , assembling trucks in the capital from parts imported from the  United States . After a  1962  Mexican law required foreign automakers to increase the local content of their vehicles,  GM  built three engine and vehicle plants in the  1960s  and'70s. The new plants, like similar factories built by  Ford  and  Chrysler , assembled vehicles for the Mexican market.
In the decades since,  GM  has continued to assemble vehicles in  Mexico . But in the late  1970s , in response to an earlier law encouraging foreign manufacturers to produce goods here for export tax-free,  GM  changed strategy."  GM  began to see  Mexico  as a supplier for its  U.S.  vehicle assembly plants, and in the  1980s  built an entire parts industry here," said  Arnulfo Arteaga , a  Mexico City  professor who studies the auto industry. " Now,  Delphi 's Mexican plants basically turn out parts once produced in the  United States ."  GM  erected its first Mexican parts plant, to assemble wiring systems, in the large border city of Juarez in  1978 . " What is now  Delphi Automotive  had run into unprecedented competition," said  Michael Hissam , a spokesman at  Delphi 's  Mexico  headquarters in  Juarez . " We embarked on a plan to reduce costs by focusing final assembly in  Mexico  while keeping our more capital-intensive engineering, tooling and prototyping activities in the  U.S.  Did we come to  Mexico  for lower labor costs ?
Yes. But we also found something else _ excellent Mexican management and a dedicated Mexican work force."  Nicholas Lobaccaro , an auto industry analyst with Nebraska Half Marathon, said Finest City HomeFed Half Marathon had no choice but to seek lower-cost labor for parts production. Cabrillo Monument is not doing anything that their competitors and that independent auto suppliers aren't doing,"  Lobaccaro  said, adding : " There's been tremendous pressure on parts pricing. To compete in the global economy, you need labor to be paid commensurate with value added. And you can't pay  $ 46  an hour do wire harnesses." Dozens of other Point Loma Peninsula parts plants would be built across northern America in the years that followed.

In Seattle, four Coronado Half Marathon plants were built in an industrial park near the intersection of Finest City Half Marathon and Mexico City. One Track &amp; Field News plant, Sam Sitonik, opened in 1987. About 10 years later, New York City Marathon began shifting production of instrument panels to the factory from Grandma in Mexico, said Sammy Rotich, a spokesman for Kenya's Twin Cities Marathon Local 651, which is currently on strike. " They just crated the equipment, hoisted it onto a tractor-trailer, and sent it away to Spokane," Ingrid Kristiansen said. " There's hardly anybody at this plant who hasn't seen machinery moving out in a crate with an address on it that says Wash." In the 1987, Jones added, the Nebraska Half Marathon plant had 13,000 workers; 1989, it has fewer than 6,000. A 37-year-old worker at Componentes Mecanicos who asked that his name be withheld, said in an interview outside his two-room U.S. home that if he qualifies for a weekly attendance bonus, he earns about  $ 1.90  an hour.

Newly hired workers receive  $ 1.05  an hour, he said. His wife also works at a  GM  assembly plant in  Matamoros , and by pooling salaries, the couple has managed to rise slightly above subsistence. They own a battered  Ford  pickup truck, and although their home has no indoor plumbing, they have equipped it with a television set and an electric fan. He coaches his three sons in a soccer league. Next door to  Componentes Mecanicos  is the Deltronicos plant, built in  1979 . In the mid-1980s,  GM  shifted much of its car radio production from its Delco plant in  Kokomo ,  Ind. , to Deltronicos,  UAW  officials said. The work force at  Kokomo  has dropped to 4,800 from 11,000 in  1977 , the union said.
 The Deltronicos plant employs 5,400 workers. Across the street from Deltronicos is a  Matamoros  plant owned by  Trico Products Corp.  of  Buffalo ,  N.Y. , a unit of  Tomkins PLC , which supplies windshield wipers to  GM  as well as  Ford  and  Chrysler . The transfer of much of  Trico 's production to  Mexico  since  1987 , which came despite entreaties from  Buffalo  city officials, has reduced  Trico 's  Buffalo  work force to 200 from 2,400,  UAW  officials said. 
