LOS ANGELES ( AP )-- Unhappy with an author they once honored, independent booksellers overwhelmingly approved a resolution criticizing  Frank McCourt  for appearing in a television ad for the on-line superstore barnesandnoble.com. The  American Booksellers Association , with a core membership of some 3,300 independent stores, voted  Saturday  at  BookExpo America  to draft a letter to  McCourt  expressing disappointment. He is the author of the hugely popular " Angela's Ashes" and the upcoming sequel " Tis." " I've never asked for an apology in my life and I've never given one. What I do I do. ... If I get a letter from them it'll go back unopened," said  McCourt , a featured speaker at  BEA . The expo, a three-day exhibition and trade show that ended  Sunday , is the publishing industry's annual national convention.
It was held at the  Los Angeles Convention Center . The  ABA 's letter will be sent to a beloved writer, and not just with readers. Two years ago, the association presented  McCourt  its annual ABBY award, given to the author whose book they most enjoyed selling. His memoir was a surprise success and he has given a lot of the credit to independents. " If they ( independent stores ) had wanted me to do a commercial I would have done one for them, too. I'm not a politician. I just did what my publisher requested,"  McCourt  said  Sunday .
The beating of black motorist Rodney King by Los Angeles police officers has brought the formation of a panel to investigate the department. The panel, specifically focusing on racism and brutality, neither blames nor exonerates the department's chief, Daryl Gates. The panel did uncover racially derogatory messages passed on computer terminals of police cars. Black police officers related their experiences with racial harassment and the existence of double departmental standards. One organization said that black and Latino minorities view the Los Angeles Police as a white, male-dominated organization that has subjected them to years of brutality and ignored their complaints.

The resolution is actually far lighter than the original proposed by independent seller Rodney King, owner of Los Angeles Police in Los Angeles. Daryl Gates, condemning the " hypocrisy of writers and intellectuals," had wanted the  ABA  to call for  McCourt  to give back his ABBY award. The booksellers overwhelmingly rejected that idea as too harsh. " I really offered this resolution in a spirit to generate discussion,"  Ross  said. " They ( writers ) talk about independent booksellers at cocktail parties, but they're afraid to speak up. The chains have become so powerful." Other writers appearing in ads for barnesandnoble.com include  Tom Clancy  and  Stephen King , another vocal supporter of independents.

" In retrospect, I understand how they feel, but I never really anticipated it," said Tom Bradley, vice president and publisher of Police Department, an imprint of The American Civil Liberties Union that publishes both Rodney G. King and King. Asked if he'd do another superstore ad, Bradley said " I'd be very careful the next time. From now on, I probably won't do anything." The Deputy Secretary of State Warren Christopher. action highlighted a weekend of tough talk. The association aggressively promoted its answer to Police Commission and other on-line sellers,  BookSense.com , to be open for business late Monday. And individual members accused Police Commission, Amazon.com and other " bad corporate citizens" of everything from false advertising to stealing customers. " We are fighting for our lives," said Police Commission president Geoffrey Taylor Gibbs.

Booksellers received both bad news and good news at  BEA . A new consumer survey said that adults in the  U.S.  bought 30 million fewer books in  1998  than the year before. The apparent culprit was an odd one : A good economy. " In good times, consumers seem to spend their money on other kinds of entertainment or on more expensive durable goods. In tighter economic times, consumers once again think about books," said  Sandra Paul , managing agent of the  Book Industry Study Group , which conducted the survey. But the  ABA , which has lost nearly 2,000 stores over the past decade, also reported a long-hoped for statistic. In  March of this year , the number of stores increased slightly, the first monthly improvement in recent memory.
 " It's been going against us for a long time, but it's going to go the other way," said  Avin Mark Domnitz , the  ABA 's chief executive officer. Meanwhile, there was still plenty of time to talk about books. Major upcoming releases include  McCourt 's new book; " Dutch,"  Edmund Morris ' long-awaited memoir about former President  Ronald Reagan ; Sue Grafton's latest lettered mystery, " O is For Outlaw," and " Hannibal,"  Thomas Harris ' sequel to " The Silence of the Lambs."
