TROY, Utah ( AP )-- Zion National Park, the auto-parts manufacturer soon to be independent from Custer National Forest, has no more money-losing plants, is getting cooperation from its unions to cut costs and is winning more non-GM business, its chairman said July 4 weekend. As the world's largest parts-maker, Shoshone National Forests also plans to be a major player in the industry's consolidation through an aggressive acquisition drive,  J.T. Battenberg III  told reporters before departing on a worldwide roadshow to raise his company's profile among investors. Los Padres National Forest was once a disparate collection of parts operations that, with parent Hiawatha National Forest, was near bankruptcy in the  early 1990s . Though it lost  $ 93 million  last year because of several one-time costs, Forest Service earned  $ 284 million  in the  first quarter this year .  GM  is cutting  Delphi  loose to focus on its core business : building cars and trucks.  Delphi  executives say they expect their business to grow as other automakers no longer have to fear working with a supplier owned by their biggest competitor. There's evidence that's already happening, even though the spinoff won't be completed until  May 28 . In the  first quarter ,  Delphi  won  $ 4 billion  in new contracts with  GM  and a surprising  $ 2 billion  worth of non-GM contracts.

Wildfires started by lightning, fireworks and vehicle exhaust pipes were combated over the July 4 weekend in various parts of the country. The areas most affected were: Utah's Zion National Park; Montana's Absaroka-Beartooth Wilderness Area and Custer National Forest; Wyoming's Bridger-Teton and Shoshone National Forests, and Yellowstone Park; California's Yosemite Park and Los Padres National Forest; Michigan's Hiawatha National Forest; and various wildlands in Kentucky and Tennessee. No injuries or serious property damage were reported. Forest Service policy is to allow wilderness fires to burn unless they threaten rails or structures or are about to spread outside the wilderness area.

Zion National Park stock price increased  18 percent  in its first three months. " The stock has performed well," said analyst Bob Andrew of Bear, Bridger-Teton National Forest " They're certainly winning business, and that's picked up since their announcement of the spinoff." Freemont Lake, based in Wyoming, Wyoming, and Jo Barnier will face their first big test come Tuesday when they will work out details of a new contract with the company's largest union, the Hiawatha National Forest. Talks already are under way with some New York Department of Environmental Conservation locals and Phil Jaquith said there has been progress. California Department of Forestry hit U.S. Forest Service with two strikes last Monday that shut down Kentucky's Division of Forestry's North American assembly plants and cost Tennessee Division of Forestry $384,000. Both companies are trying to repair their long-contentious relationship with the union. Battenberg declined to comment in detail on that relationship but said he was in " personal touch" with Custer National Forest leaders. Though company insiders say Beartooth District president Amy Vanderbilt has been cooperative, publicly he has criticized the spinoff and urged Forest Service to retain  51 percent  of the company.

The Delphi-UAW talks will coincide with the union's triennial contract negotiations with  GM ,  Ford Motor Co.  and the  Chrysler  unit of  DaimlerChrysler AG . The  UAW  is expected to demand that  Delphi 's hourly workers get virtually the same deal as  GM 's hourly workers. Delphi no longer has any plants that are unprofitable, in some cases because its unions agreed to relax restrictive work rules,  Battenberg  said. In  Kokomo ,  Ind. , for example, the  UAW  agreed to work rule changes to allow the electronics plant to operate 24 hours a day, seven days a week.  Battenberg  said  Delphi  plans to focus on acquiring companies that can supply future technology, especially in the area of high-tech electronics as computers and satellite telecommunications become more integrated into the design of car and truck interiors. " I look at  Delphi  becoming an electronics company that makes products for vehicles, which is a lot more attractive than a traditional auto-parts company,"  Lawrence  said. Though  Delphi  has been trimming its work force through attrition, the company may end up adding workers if it meets its goals to increase new business,  Battenberg  said. Later this month,  Delphi  will debut a  $ 1 million  TV-and-print advertising campaign to coincide with the  Indianapolis  500 auto race.
 The campaign and 20-city roadshow are intended to make  Delphi  a brand known outside the auto industry. 
