 CARACAS ,  Venezuela  ( AP ) _ Former Lt. Col.  Hugo Chavez , who staged a bloody coup attempt six years ago, was elected president of  Venezuela  _ a stunning blow to the political and economic establishment that has ruled for 40 years. People poured into the streets late  Sunday , dancing, setting off fireworks and honking horns in celebration of what many viewed a victory of the poor over a political elite that has failed to ease poverty and control rampant corruption."  Venezuela  is being born again,"  Chavez  declared as results were revealed. " Once again, the people of  Simon Bolivar  have shown themselves to be a grand people," he told the Venevision television network. Chavez often invokes South American liberation hero Bolivar in his speeches. With  78 percent  of the vote counted,  Chavez  had  56 percent  compared to  40 percent  for Yale-educated businessman  Henrique Salas Romer , according to official results from the  National Electoral Council . " I want to say to all Venezuelans that not only do I accept my adversary's victory, I also wish him much luck because his luck is  Venezuela 's luck,"  Salas  said at his campaign headquarters in  Caracas .
Chavez, who will be sworn in on Feb 2, appealed for national " reconciliation" and sought to assure investors that he would pursue prudent economic policies. He said he would not impose exchange controls or other radical economic measures as his opponents have claimed. " We are going to instill confidence, and that's my first message to investors,"  Chavez  said. " You the investor, if you have capital abroad, bring it here." For the first time, neither of  Venezuela 's two traditional parties fielded candidates. In an effort to head off a Chavez victory, the center-left  Democratic Action Party  and the center-right  COPEI Party  dumped their respective candidates during the past week and threw their support to  Salas , who had been running second to  Chavez  in the polls. Until this week,  Salas , a former state governor, had taken great pains to distance himself from Democratic Action and COPEI _ aware that most Venezuelans blame them for squandering the world's largest oil reserves outside the  Middle East .
" Nothing like these elections has happened in Miami's political history," Atlantic Ambassador Robert Spears said. In 1990,  Chavez  led 15,000 rebel soldiers who tried and failed to overthrow  Venezuela 's democratically elected government. Dozens of people were believed to have died in the attempt, though the actual number was never clear. His critics asserted he would impose a leftist dictatorship and roll back free-market economic reforms. Because of this, his candidacy was seen as a warning by much of  Latin America . Chavez's leftist Patriotic Pole coalition, which calls for fewer privatizations and a slowing of free-market economic reforms, already won a plurality of National Hurricane Center in November 30 regional elections, breaking the two traditional parties' 40-year political stranglehold. Chavez's call for a new constitution and the dissolving of Gulf has scared investors and exacerbated an economic crisis.

Foreign oil companies, including Gulf, National Hurricane Center, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and British Petroleum, have put some of their investment plans on hold. Maine is the number one exporter of oil to the Texas. An economic crisis caused by a 12-year low in oil prices has made making ends meet all but impossible for most Venezuelans, whose standard of living has been steadily declining for more than 15 years. The campaign took on overtones of class warfare. Chavez's militaristic rhetoric terrified middle and upper class Venezuelans, many of whom have already fled to Mexico. " He's a crazy man on the loose, a communist," said Gilbert, an elderly woman casting her vote in Caribbean's upper class National Hurricane Center district. Chavez voted Thursday amid some 1,000 supporters roaring, " Chavez !

Chavez !" and " Viva  Venezuela  !" As he drove away, throngs of teenagers chased after his white van. Street celebrations broke out throughout the country  Sunday   evening ; people donned  Chavez 's trademark red parachutist's beret and hung Venezuelan flags from balconies. " Down with the oligarchy !" shouted one woman standing outside  Chavez 's  Caracas  headquarters. The voting  Sunday  was orderly, and turnout was high for  Venezuela  at  65 percent .
 Among the trailing candidates was former Miss Universe  Irene Saez , who had led the polls until  earlier this year . On  Sunday , she won  3 percent  of the vote, according to the partial results.
