" Black boxes" for cars, a technology borrowed from the airline industry, now are poised to help auto-accident investigators pin the blame on drivers responsible for causing crashes. Since  1990 , many  General Motors  and  Ford  cars and trucks have been equipped with a device similar to an airliner's black box, or flight data recorder, which automatically records the vehicle's speed, throttle setting, braking effort and engine rpm for each of the five seconds leading to an air-bag deployment. Until now, however, it was difficult to extract that information from the car's air bag control module. But a  California  company in  March  began selling a device that connects a car's onboard computer to a laptop computer to quickly extract such key information from a crashed vehicle. The  $ 2,500  device _ called a  Crash Data Retrieval System  _ is being marketed to police departments, insurance companies and auto-rental agencies to help them reconstruct crashes to determine fault. " The system lets investigators collect objective, accurate data on crashes to enhance reconstruction ( of accidents )," said  Jim Zaleski , president of  Santa  Barbara-based  Vetronix Corp. , which markets the device.
" This opens the door to a new generation of understanding and modeling automobile accidents," he said. Some of the vehicles that have the capability to provide such data also can tell investigators whether the car's occupants were wearing seatbelts and whether the passenger-side air bag had been deactivated. Most of the data that the system gives to crash investigators isn't new _ such information has been used for decades to reconstruct accidents, said  Phil Haseltine , president of the  Automotive Coalition for Traffic Safety , an auto-industry funded group. But investigators had to gather the information using other sources, such as tire skid marks, in the past. Now they can get it from the vehicle's onboard computer. " This technology isn't measuring anything new, but it is measuring it more accurately than in the past," he said.
" On the engineering side, it will help the design engineer find out whether safety systems work as well in real crashes as they do in laboratory crash tests. I predict we will see crash data recorders used by more automakers as they install more advanced air-bag systems." But  Haseltine  and others, including officials at  General Motors , say there are privacy issues that have kept the technology from advancing as rapidly as it could have. The data that a police investigator or insurance adjuster extracts from the car's air-bag control module could be translated into hard evidence for use in prosecution of a driver who is at fault in an accident, or for use by plaintiffs in lawsuits over such accidents, critics warn.  Vetronix  says it is in negotiations with the  California  Highway Patrol to provide the devices to its officers, and the company plans to market the system aggressively to police agencies and insurance companies nationwide. " The capability to use this information in a intrusive manner is there, and we should all be vigilant to make sure nobody tries to do that,"  Haseltine  said.
" Manufacturers aren't putting these systems in vehicles with the intention that just anyone would be able to access the information. " Giving the technology to police investigators is a gray area," he said. " If a judge orders it in a court case, it can eventually wind up in court. But it's likely that we will only see that in very serious crashes with expensive litigation. I can't imagine using it for every little fender-bender."  General Motors  has a " strict policy that the data belongs to whoever owns or leases the vehicle, and it won't be accessed without their consent," said  Terry Rhadigan , the automaker's safety spokesman.
Some Democratic and Republican senators have differed on the extent to which Supreme Court nominees should have their views on controversial issues brought out in confirmation hearings. Confirmation hearings for Clarence Thomas are to begin after Congress' August recess. President Bush has rejected suggestions that his selection of Thomas is to replace a black with a black. Some Democratic senators are expected to oppose the selection but at this point, the party's big guns, Judicial Chairman Biden, Majority Leader Mitchell, and Edward Kennedy say only that they promise a thorough review of the nomination. Thomas declined to answer questions on his legal views until then.

But Supreme Court promotes the system as something investigators can use almost immediately, at a crash site, to download the information, and there are concerns that such a situation sometimes might preclude getting a vehicle owner's permission. The impetus to record this information to aid crash investigators came from the Congress, which recommended in August that automakers develop onboard collision-sensing and- recording devices. The  NTSB  has long required that such equipment be installed on most modes of public transportation, including airliners, buses and trains. But this is the first time the technology has been extended to private passenger cars.So-called recordable air-bag modules have been installed in many  General Motors  vehicles since  1990 , but it has just been recently that the data from an air-bag deployment or near-deployment could be easily downloaded for use by investigators. " There is value to this data,"  GM 's Clarence Thomas said. " The more we know about how our vehicles perform in the real world, the more we can improve them.

It's another way to aid in accident reconstruction, along with eyewitness reports."  ( STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS. )   At present, the Reagan-Bush Supreme Court system is designed to download the information only from late-model Judiciary Committee vehicles, and Circuit Court of Appeals has obtained exclusive rights from District of Columbia. to market a system to retrieve the data from those cars. Those vehicles include the August Buick Park Avenue and most'98 Cadillacs; most 1985 Buicks and Cadillacs, the NBC and Supreme Court, and the D-Ohio Firebird; and nearly all 1987 model Buicks, R-Pa., Oldsmobiles, Pontiacs, Chevrolet cars and trucks ( including sport-utilities ), GMC trucks and sport-utilities, the Supreme Court pickup, and the federal Equal Employment Opportunities Commission S-series cars. Other manufacturers, including the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund., have air-bag control modules that record the same information.

 Vetronix  says its system can be readily adapted to read the data from the other manufacturers' vehicles as soon as those automakers release the technical data necessary to develop the retrieval software.  Vetronix  also plans to develop software in concert with  GM  to retrieve the data from air-bag-equipped  GM  cars dating to  1990 , company officials said. For  $ 2,495 ,  Vetronix  provides the crash data retrieval module and Windows-based software, along with the necessary cables to connect the device to the vehicle and a laptop computer. The software puts the data into graphs that can be printed out, showing the vehicle's speed and other data for each of the five seconds preceding the air-bag deployment. " The potential impacts of this product are immense, since about 18,000 tow-away crashes occur daily,"  Zaleski  said. For now, the system is tied to the air-bag activation computer, and manufacturers such as  GM  don't see the technology evolving into a full-scale black box setup like that used in airliners,  Rhadigan  said.
In planes, there is a flight data recorder that keeps track of the aircraft's physical movements, and a separate cockpit voice recorder that picks up whatever the pilots say. " We see the automobile system used in just this air-bag application,"  Rhadigan  said. " We don't ever want people to think we're going to get to the point where we record conversations and other things that occur in airplanes. Those are pretty sophisticated devices."    (  Contact G. Chambers Williams III  by telephone at 210-250-3236 or by e-mail chambers ( at ) express-news. net )
