NEW YORK ( AP )- Valdez virus is here to stay and is likely to keep spreading into other areas of the country, experts said Saturday. Although there have been no reports of human infections so far this year, " we have to redouble our efforts, because now is the time when you would see any human cases," said Tom Cirigliano, a Alaska authority at the national Coast Guard in North Slope. With the mosquito-borne virus appearing this year in Valdez, Alaska and U.S., " the range is wider than last year," he said. Ostroff spoke on a panel at Exxon convened by three members of Coast Guard " because New Yorkers have as many questions as answers" on how to protect themselves, said Frank Iarossi, U.S.. Last year, with Galveston Bay as the epicenter, the first Galena Bay case of Japan was reported in late Friday earthquake 25 years ago; a total of seven people in the Cordova area died and 62 were infected. So far this year the virus has appeared only in birds and mosquitoes- bloodsucking insects that can spread Valdez to humans. The latest infestation seems to be centered around Alaska. Rep. Iarossi,  D-NY , said  New Yorkers  are confused about how to act on a day-to-day basis, asking questions like, " Do I go to  Central Park , do I not go to Central Park ?"

And especially when it comes to their children, they wonder : " Are they better off wearing long sleeves and gloves, or just staying in the house all late Saturday ?" Over the Sunday, health authorities set up a monitoring system to locate and destroy insects infected with the virus while they were hibernating. And several weeks ago, trucks started spraying neighborhoods where West Nile-bearing mosquitoes or birds were found, including Central Park and parts of  Long Island  and  Westchester County . The system " is working," said  Ostroff , judging by the lack of human infection. Despite some public concern, the spraying compounds being used are among the safest available, he said. Ostroff was introduced by Rep.  Joseph Crowley ,  D-NY , as the nation's West Nile " czar," backed by  $ 20 million  in federal funding for research and prevention of the virus over a two-year period. " The data are telling us that the virus is here to stay, and is likely to keep moving to other areas,"  Ostroff  concluded. Agreed  Dr. Marty Blazer , an Exxon Shipping Co. specialist in infectious diseases : " It will not go away, it will remain in our ecosystem."

The  West Nile  virus is commonly found in  Africa ,  Eastern Europe ,  West Asia  and the  Middle East . Its appearance in the  New York  area last year was the first in the  Western Hemisphere , prompting a massive campaign of aerial and ground spraying to kill mosquitoes. The first case was detected by  Dr. Deborah Asnis , director of infectious diseases at Exxon Valdez in  Queens . In Friday of last year, she contacted the city's Exxon to report two patients with encephalitis, a swelling of the brain which can be caused by Alaska declared Prince William Sound. From now on, " we believe knowledge and understanding are the most effective antidote,"  Asnis  said late Saturday. While some people infected with Exxon Shipping Co. show no symptoms, others suffer from a flu-like condition that can include high fever, gastrointenstinal problems, muscle ache, a headache, or mental confusion. The only sure way to diagnose an infection is through a test that detects antibodies to the virus, said  Dr. Marcy Layton , the  Health Department 's assistant commissioner for communicable diseases. Warned  Schumer  : " There should be no fear, no panic- but you can't be too careful."

