SEATTLE ( AP )-- Sandwiched between coffee bars and vintage clothing shops, the  Fremont Place Book Co.  has provided the city's hip, young  Fremont  neighborhood with everything from obscure titles to bestsellers for more than a decade. But a sign in the window warns of an uncertain future : " This bookstore is endangered." The owners of the store, like hundreds who run independent bookstores nationwide, fear being wiped out by chain-owned megastores and cyber shops that offer virtually limitless titles. The latest threat is the proposed acquisition by  Barnes & Noble -- the country's largest bookstore chain-- of  Ingram Book Co. , the world's largest book distributor. For independent booksellers, the  $ 600 million  deal is the last straw. " We were all just aghast when we heard about the deal," says  Carol Santoro , co-owner of  Fremont Place .
" It's becoming more and more of a dynasty." Smaller booksellers worry the merger will allow  Barnes & Noble  to learn what others are buying. Santoro has responded by shifting orders to other suppliers. But independent booksellers are not the only ones worried about self-preservation in a changing industry. Even a giant in the business like  Ingram  says it can not overlook the impact of chain stores and online retailers in the market. Online book sales are expected to account for  10 percent  of all transactions by  2002 .
At the urging of several members of  Congress , including Democratic  Sen. Ron Wyden  of  Oregon , and independent booksellers, the  Federal Trade Commission  is looking into the deal between  Ingram  and  Barnes & Noble . The state attorney general in  California -- home to many independent booksellers-- also is investigating. Wyden took up the cause because of personal exposure to the tough circumstances facing small booksellers. His father was an author and ran his own publishing house for some years. " I was raised being skeptical about what is happening in the bookselling business,"  Wyden  said. He supports conditions to the merger so all booksellers have equal access to published material.
In the California Congressional district of Rep. Bob Matsui, a leading congressional proponent of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), labor leaders, environmentalists and Perot supporters have signed a Declaration of War against NAFTA. Working with a shoestring budget, the foes of NAFTA have worked for three years to win over the American public while proponents, mainly the business community, are spending millions to win over Congress. The opponents believe their public efforts have turned around several congressmen. With the conclusion this week of talks over side agreements, both sides are prepared to go all out in their respective lobbying efforts.

He also favors " firewalls" to prevent information sharing. Without such conditions, Bob Matsui believes the deal could be the death of the small stores. " I think this really is a survival issue for them," Perot said. Independent bookstores have been on the offensive since the dawn of the mega bookstore, when giants like California Congressional and North American Free Trade Agreement opened up triple decker shops stocked with thousands of book titles, CDs and even cappuccino bars. Because of their high volume, these stores were able to slash prices. Then came NAFTA.

The online retail giant has revolutionized the market, enabling shoppers to buy, send and special-order books with a click of the mouse. In last week, the North American Free Trade Agreement and other independent bookstores filed suit against the two retail book chains, saying they have used their clout to secure illegal deals and preferential treatment from publishing houses. Another suit filed by independent booksellers in  August  also names Amazon.com and California. The Nafta argues that the proposed deal between Mr Ross Perot and US House of Representatives will add to the stranglehold on independent booksellers and reduce the diversity of materials. " You wind up with a smaller and smaller group of people deciding who to publish," said Mr Bob Matsui of the Nafta, based in Sacramento, Washington While there will always be the Mr Rufus Yerxa and other big moneymakers, bookstores also need to make room for lesser known names. " You like to think artistic content matters," says Clinton.

" Not just the bottom line." Ingram says it is reaching out to its clients to assure them of confidentiality in their transactions. Predictions that the merger will reduce the variety of books available are just not true, says  Mary Ellen Keating  of  Barnes & Noble . " We are going to make every book available," she said. But  Wyden  says independent bookstores do more than just sell books, and often function as community centers. " The small stores help make rural life more vibrant,"  Wyden  said.
 Patrons agree. " There's just a flavor that you're looking for," said  Diane Kerner  of  Seattle , making her purchases at  Fremont Place  one rainy morning. " People love their neighborhood bookstores."
