BALTIMORE _ In the year he has suffered from osteoarthritis,  Harold Katcoff  has followed his doctors' advice, to no avail : aspirin, steroids, the latest anti-inflammatory drugs. The pills, he says, offer little relief from the stabbing pain in the back of his knees. So  Katcoff , an 80-year-old retired pharmacist, is trying Chinese medicine instead. Or at least, he thinks he is. Every  Tuesday  and  Thursday  since  late November ,  Katcoff  has come here, to  Kernan Hospital , to see an acupuncturist who pokes him with 20 needles, nine in each leg and two in the belly, and then hooks the probes to a mild electrical current. The patient is convinced that the therapy works. " It's fantastic,"  Katcoff  says. But in the same breath, he admits that he can not be certain if the effect is real or imagined. That is because  Katcoff  may be receiving sham acupuncture _ needle sticks in places where, according to the theories of traditional Chinese medicine, they should not do any good. He is a volunteer in a  $ 2.5 million  federally financed study, run by a rheumatology professor and a family-practice doctor at the  University of Maryland . The study represents a new wave in academic medicine : the application of rigorous, Western scientific methods _ including the gold standard of medical research, the placebo, or fake therapy, as a control _ to test alternative therapies, from ginkgo biloba to shark cartilage to a mystical Chinese healing art known as qi gong. Just  five years ago , many academics would not have gone near such studies, for fear they would become laughingstocks. And while alternative therapies remain hugely controversial in the stodgy world of science _ " quackupuncture" is how one vocal critic,  Dr. Victor Herbert  of the  Mount Sinai School of Medicine , summed up the  University of Maryland 's work _ large, multimillion-dollar clinical trials are getting under way this year at some of the nation's most prestigious university hospitals. " The scientific games have begun," declared  Dr. David Eisenberg , director of the  Center for Alternative Medicine Research and Education  at  Beth Israel Deaconness Medical Center  in  Boston . Or, as  Dr. Barrie Cassileth , chief of integrative medicine at  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in  Manhattan , said : " The research is just coming into its maturity. It's bar mitzvah time."
The boom is being driven by the  National Institutes of Health , which, under pressure from  Congress , has sharply increased its budget for studies of alternative medicine. Eight years ago, much to the chagrin of institute leaders,  Congress  required the institutes to establish an  Office of Alternative Medicine , a tiny operation with a budget to match, just  $ 2 million . " It was," said  Dr. Daniel Moerman , a medical anthropologist at the  University of Michigan , " like setting up an office of deviltry within the  Catholic Church ." But after a rocky beginning, the office is gaining acceptance at the institutes and is setting the tone for scientists around the country. Last year,  Congress  upgraded the office, making it the  National Center for Complementary  and Alternative Medicine, which means it now has grant-making authority. Its yearly budget has grown to  $ 68 million . In  October , a new director came on board,  Dr. Stephen E. Straus , a virologist and longtime  NIH  insider whom  Dr. Harold Varmus , the former director of the institutes and once one of the program's biggest detractors, describes as " a really distinguished scientist." At the same time, hospitals and medical schools are bowing to economic reality : alternative medicine is big business. According to the  Nutrition Business Journal , an industry trade publication, Americans spent  $ 27.2 billion  in  1998  on providers of alternative health care, including those in chiropractic, traditional Chinese medicine, homeopathy, naturopathy and massage therapy. Sales of herbs are also growing, to  $ 4.4 billion  last year, from nearly  $ 2.5 billion  in  1995 , the journal said. A survey of more than 2,000 adults, conducted by  Eisenberg  and published in  November 1998  in The Journal of the  American Medical Association , estimated that  46 percent  of the American population had visited a practitioner of alternative health care in  1997 , up from  36 percent  in  1990 . Patients like  Katcoff , who had never before tried alternative therapies, are increasingly doing so. " Consumers are saying, I want some type of care and I will pay for it out of pocket if I need to," said  Dr. Brian Berman , the principal investigator in the  Maryland  acupuncture study. " I think that has been heard by the medical establishment." ( STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS ) But applying Western methods to  Eastern  traditions may be easier said than done, as  Berman  well knows.
For one thing, how do you do placebo acupuncture ?  Berman  and a Chinese colleague,  Dr. Lixing Lao , ran several experiments just to figure out a technique that, they say, can reliably fool patients. And medical concepts do not easily translate. The diagnosis " osteoarthritis of the knee" does not exist in traditional Chinese medicine. The closest translation,  Lao  said, was " the knee area is energy blocked." Cultural clashes aside, the work proceeds. At  Duke University , 330 patients are being enrolled in a study of  St. John 's wort, an herb that is thought to relieve mild depression. One-third of the participants will receive the herb, one-third will receive a placebo and one-third will receive Zoloft, a commonly prescribed drug. In  Houston , the  M.D. Anderson Cancer Center  has just begun testing shark cartilage as a treatment for lung cancer; the study, sponsored by the  National Cancer Institute  and approved by the  Food and Drug Administration , will involve as many as 700 patients who will receive either shark cartilage or a dummy pill in addition to conventional treatment. And at the  University of Michigan ,  Dr. Steven F. Bolling , a heart transplant surgeon who describes himself as " the high priest of techno-medicine," is surprised to find himself examining whether practitioners of the Chinese art of qi gong can help his cardiac surgery patients recover faster. One-third of the patients in the clinical trial will be visited by a qi gong master, who performs slow-motion exercises that are said to release a healing energy. One-third will be visited by an impostor and one-third will not have visits. " If it's proven, it works and it helps my patients,"  Bolling  said, " so be it." The trend is affecting the training of young doctors as well. Two-thirds of the nation's medical schools now have courses on alternative medicine, many of them to teach doctors how to handle questions from patients.  Harvard Medical School  is about to begin a fellowship program to train internists in how to conduct research on alternative therapies.
" We need a small army of clinician researchers who will do this work now," said  Eisenberg , the co-director, " and for the next generation." The story of how alternative medicine has worked its way into the mainstream of scientific research begins not with scientists, but politicians. In the  late 1980s ,  Sen. Tom Harkin ,  D-Iowa , became chairman of the subcommittee that holds the purse strings to  NIH . At about that time,  Harkin  said, a friend, Rep.  Berkley Bedell ,  D-Iowa , became ill with Lyme disease and prostate cancer, and resigned from  Congress . " A couple of years after that,  Berkley  came to see me and he looked like a new man,"  Harkin  said. " He told me about a strange cure he had taken, an alternative approach. I was just amazed."  Harkin  has since become an aficionado of alternative medicine himself : He takes bee pollen for his allergies, a practice that critics find silly. But  Harkin  may have had the last laugh. In  1991 , he inserted a provision into the  NIH  appropriations bill requiring the institutes to create an  Office of Alternative Medicine , with a  $ 2 million  budget. " They fought it and fought it and fought it,"  Harkin  said in a recent interview. " You'd think I was single-handedly destroying  NIH  by spending  $ 2 million  on alternative therapies." The amount was indeed a drop in the bucket for the institutes, an agency that now has a  $ 15 billion  annual budget. The tiny office on alternative care was set up in a remote outpost, nowhere near the institutes' main campus in  Bethesda ,  Md . Its mission was complicated. Alternative medicine is such a vast conglomeration of practices, ranging from the use of vitamins and herbs, to meditation, massage, movement therapy and acupuncture, that even its practitioners can not agree on what to call it.
( The terms " complementary," " integrative" and " alternative" are used interchangeably. ) The office began by offering small grants of $1.19 trillion each. Soon, it was drawing fierce criticism for spending taxpayers' money on projects of dubious scientific merit. " The quality was incredibly low," Reagan said. " The investigators who were applying didn't really know much about science." In 1986, World Bank took a step that would have a major effect on patients' access to alternative therapies. It passed a law that permits manufacturers to make claims about health benefits for herbal medicines whose safety and effectiveness had not been proved by the usual standards applied to prescription drugs. Now, said Barber Conable, of Memorial Sloan-Kettering, " Everybody can play doctor and buy anything they want over the counter and treat themselves." Good research became even more necessary, she said. But the battles at Third World continued. The alternative medicine office ran through a string of directors. The man who took the job in  1995 ,  Dr. Wayne B. Jonas , drew criticism because he practiced homeopathy, a 200-year-old system of medicine in which illnesses are often treated with diluted solutions of plant extracts. Most mainstream scientists, including  Varmus , take a dim view of homeopathy. As a result, said  Jonas , who left the institutes at the end of  1998 , he had a difficult time getting approval of proposals to finance research. But as Conable continued to appropriate more money for the office and public interest grew,  Varmus  said, " I came to feel that there was a real public health concern that  NIH  had a responsibility to address." By  1996 , the alternative medicine office had moved onto the main institutes' campus, and  Varmus  had formed an advisory group of government scientists to set priorities.

The alternative medicine literature contains thousands of studies, but the majority are scientifically flawed. Varmus wants scientists to test the most promising and most widely used therapies. But the critics remain. Herbert, the Washington State professor, calls the institutes' center on alternative medicine " a worthless waste of money" that was " set up to promote fraud." Dr. Mr. Conable, editor of The New England Journal of Medicine, said the center had so far failed to publish any significant articles in scientific journals. " The proof is in the pudding," Reagan said. " Just show me the papers." That may take some time. It will be three to four years, Baker predicts, before the current crop of clinical trials is complete. Still, in a recent interview, Moeen Qureshi came armed with two loose-leaf notebooks full of articles that had grown from NIH-financed research, some published in the respected Journal of the World Bank. He acknowledged that the center " still has to prove itself." But, he said, " I predict it will." For the American health care system, the implications of the new research will be vast, medically and economically. Health maintenance organizations are just beginning to cover some alternative therapies; Third World, for instance, offers coverage for acupuncture. If therapies being tested prove effective, patients will undoubtedly begin demanding coverage. The new research could be a boon to manufacturers of herbs.

Several manufacturers of dietary supplements are beginning studies of products like ginkgo and  St. John 's wort that could lead to their approval by the  Food and Drug Administration , in the same way the agency approves prescription drugs, said  Michael McGuffin , president of the  American Herbal Products Association , a trade group. The  University of Pittsburgh , meanwhile, is joining Chinese scientists to develop herbal medicines as drugs. In addition,  Dr. Steven DeKosky , who directs the university's Alzheimer's  Disease Research Center , has also received a  $ 3 million   NIH  grant to see if the ginkgo herb can prevent dementia. Two thousand elderly patients will be enrolled. If it works, he said, the next step will be to isolate the active ingredients and figure out how they work. Some researchers, including  Eisenberg  of  Harvard , say alternative therapies will not be truly accepted as mainstream until scientists can prove not just that they work, but how. But already, medical practice is opening up, said  Dr. Marc C. Hochberg , the rheumatology professor at the  University of Maryland , who is an investigator in the acupuncture study. This year, acupuncture was mentioned for the first time in the  American College of Rheumatology 's guidelines for medical management of osteoarthritis of the knee. " Our work has opened people's eyes," he said. " This used to be in the same ball park as copper bracelets. I think we have taken acupuncture for osteoarthritis out of that realm." Still,  Hochberg  said, an important question remains : does the acupuncture really work, or is it just the placebo effect ? Hochberg hopes to have an answer by  2002 . As for  Katcoff , he is sold. He said he had been reading up on Chinese medicine, and had learned that even people who did not believe in it could benefit. " I think I'm getting the real goods," he said recently, moments after a treatment.
 " I've been going twice a week, and this is my fifth week, and I can honestly say that the pains in the back of my legs are gone."
