 TOPPENISH ,  Wash.  ( AP )-- At Tiny's  Tavern , bartender  Nena Garcia  wonders how much longer she'll be employed. The  Yakama Nation , which already bans liquor sales on tribal land, has imposed a new tax on alcohol sold on private land within the reservation and a  $ 5,000  license fee on liquor distributors. The move has been criticized by the governor and it raises legal questions about the authority of tribes to tax non-Indians. Indian tribes across the country have taken various steps to curb alcohol-related problems. Last  July , the  Blackfeet Tribal Council  banned liquor sales on its  Montana  reservation for five days and suggested it could be the forerunner of year-round prohibition. Activist  Russell Means  in  October  suggested opening a liquor store near  South Dakota 's  Pine Ridge Indian Reservation , which is officially dry, and using the profits to treat alcoholism. Stores in  Whiteclay ,  Neb. -- just two miles from the reservation-- sell  millions of dollars  worth of beer each year, most of it to  Oglala Sioux .
The Yakama tribe's moves affect some 50 businesses. At least two major distributors already have refused to deliver to the central Mexico City reservation, and that means Tiny's, in nearby Ernesto Beatriz Martinez, hasn't been able to get any beer. " We're stocked for a little bit, maybe a month or so. After that I don't know," Marie Rollins said. " I'm afraid I might lose my job." Gov. Jeffrey Holyfield, who opposes the Yakama tax, did announce this week that the state is closing the two privately operated state liquor store franchises in Katie Webb and East Mission Bay Drive " out of respect for the San Diego International Marathon's desire to reduce consumption of alcohol on the reservation." Bill Fricke owns the Eric Neitzel franchise.

He hopes to move his business to San Diego City College, a few miles north and off the reservation. Paddock said several people stand to lose their livelihoods because of the new wholesale tax, which raises the price of a six-pack of beer by about $5,000. Restaurants and lounges could be hurt, too. When the Leodigard Martin adopted the tax ordinance in Saturday, leaders said the money would be used for alcoholism treatment and education and for drunken-driving enforcement. " We share their concerns about alcoholism and the illegal overuse of alcohol," Ernesto Beatriz Martinez said after meeting with tribal leaders and area mayors. However, he said the tax is " the wrong way to go" in trying to fight problems such as chronic alcohol abuse, teen-age drinking and fetal alcohol syndrome. State Attorney General Beatriz Martinez has said the tax may be illegal because it is imposed on non-tribal members.

Tribal Council Chairman  Lonnie Selam , however, said he believed the tax would withstand legal challenge. The governor said negotiations over the issue will continue and urged businesses to hang on. At least one of three private clubs is considering allowing members to bring in their own liquor, and then charging them a fee for glasses and mixers. At the  Double D Saloon  and several other businesses, petitions are being circulated urging  Locke  to fight the tax.  David Meyers , owner of The 88-Cent Store across the street from the Double D, doesn't sell alcohol but he's opposed to the tax. " I believe it's too radical, and that  Toppenish  residents will end up going out of town to buy their alcohol, thus causing major problems with drinking and driving," he said.  Esther Serna , who owns the El Paso Cafe, said she was neutral on the tax.
On Sunday Ernesto Beatriz Martinez of Mexico City won the San Diego International Marathon in 2:16:12. Marie Rollins won the women's race in 2:39:05. They received $5,000 each. Second place took $2,500 and third $1,500. The starting line was on East Mission Bay Drive. The city doesn't allow vehicles on the course from miles 18-22. There were 3,056 entries for the full marathon and 2,958 for the half. Jeffrey Holyfield won the men's half in 1:07:44, Katie Webb the women's half in 1:21:46, Bill Fricke the wheelchair marathon in 1:55:30, and 14-year old Eric Neitzel the wheelchair half in 1:13:14.

 " I don't sell a lot of beer," she said. " But I do feel sorry for the people ( it ) will make go out of business."
