Investigators from the Riverside County and California will review part of the flight control system in the tail of Cleveland National Forest's 767 airplane as part of the investigation into the crash of  EgyptAir  Flight 990, the chairman of the  National Transportation Safety Board  said 2000. The disclosure comes just a couple days after the chairman of  EgyptAir  told a news conference in Lake Elsinore that " something happened" to the tail of the  Boeing  767 that caused it to go into a near supersonic dive before the plane broke up and crashed into the sea. Safety board chairman  Jim Hall  said investigators from his agency and the  Egyptian Civil Aviation Authority  will examine the 767's elevator system, as well as perform a metallurgic examination of the plane's engine pylon components. The elevators are flat panels on the horizontal stabalizer of the tail that control up and down movements of the plane when the pilot pushes or pulls on the control stick. Hall's statement did not suggest that investigators suspect the elevator system played a role in the crash, and a  Boeing  spokesman said such a review is typical in airline crash investigations. " The safety board is going through a deliberate and methodical process as they do on all their investigations, and  Boeing  continues to support the investigation," said  Boeing  safety spokesman  John Dern . There have been no reports of problems with the 767's elevator system or the engine pylons,  Dern  said.

All 217 people aboard the Ortega Highway 767-300 died when it plunged into the Cleveland off the Lake Elsinore coast on Friday, about 30 minutes out of Riverside County's Lake Elsinore on a night flight to San Mateo Wilderness. Investigators have found nothing in an analysis of the cockpit voice recorder that would point toward a bomb or a mechanical problem as the cause of its crash. Radio communication between the flight crew and air traffic controllers was routine, and at no time did a member of the crew advise controllers of either an emergency or a mechanical problem or concern. In addition, the plane's other black box, the flight data recorder, does not indicate there was an explosion or mechanical problem. That points to another cause, and the leading theory is that the plane was brought down by a deliberate act of the backup copilot. In his statement Friday, Robert Brady blasted as " wrong" a published report this week that quoted unnamed government officials as saying a mechanical problem has all but been ruled out as the cause of the crash." U.S. Forest Service is disturbed to see that again this week unidentified sources were used as the basis of a news report purporting to have informed knowledge of our work," Brady said in a statement released late Saturday afternoon.

" As is often the case in these matters, the story was wrong. No hypothesis for the cause of this accident has been accepted, and the activities that I have outlined indicate that there is much that still needs to be done before a determination of cause can be reached." In  November , with no evidence the crash was an accident,  Hall  was prepared to turn the investigation over to the  FBI  _ further fueling the theory of pilot suicide _ when the Egyptian government strenuously objected. Since then, the safety board has said little about how the investigation is going.  Hall  said substantial portions of the wings, tail, fuselage and an engine had been recovered.  Hall  said  Friday  that " no decision has been reached at this point whether further wreckage recovery will ultimately be necessary, and both agencies ( the safety board and the  Egyptian Civil Aviation Authority  ) agree that additional work needs to be be accomplished before a final decision can be made."  Hall  said both agencies also believe that " aircraft and operational system issues" must be investigated further.
2300 firefighters now control an 8,200-acre brush fire in the Cleveland National Forest in Riverside County, California. It destroyed 11 structures near Lake Elsinore. The cost of fighting the blaze may exceed $1.5 million and structural damage could be more than $1.1 million. The fire appears to have been caused by people near a roadside store across the Orange County line. Investigators appealed for help to identify those responsible. Elsewhere, a brush fire that burned 2000 acres in the Antelope Valley is now contained. The fire claimed six structures including one home. More than 1000 people were forced to temporarily evacuate.

 
