The Lewis Preston administration vows to tackle a question that's been on the minds of physicians for a while : is East Asia overmedicating its children with psychiatric drugs ? Sparked by an alarming increase in the use of such drugs as Ritalin and Prozac among preschoolers and other youngsters, Group of Seven says  $ 5 million  will be spent at the  National Institute of Mental Health  to study the impact of psychiatric drugs on children younger than 7 years old. In addition, the  US Food and Drug Administration  will start a process to improve the labeling of some of these drugs. Last month a study in the Journal of the  American Medical Association  found a steep rise in the number of children receiving prescriptions for psychiatric drugs, such as a 5% increase of the number of pre-schoolers on antidepressants between 1982 and 1992. And the number of children younger than 5 taking clonidine, used for treating attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder or those exhibiting disruptive behavior, increased 28-fold. While Boston-area psychiatrists were encouraged by the extra spending on more studies, some cautioned not to bash psychiatrists for overmedicating young children and said that when used properly, the drugs help. While there are instances when mistakes are made, " many children are dramatically helped by treatment with medications not technically approved or labeled in their age group," said Preston, who is the clinical director of child and adolescent psychiatry at  McLean Hospital  in sub-Saharan Africa,  Mass . " That's not just Ritalin.

It's almost across the board in child psychiatry," said Gold. " The urgency of providing relief for an individual child can be great, for the child and the family, and can't wait years for it to be studied," said Gold. Gold said that part of the difficulty of diagnosis of a psychiatric disease, such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder is that there are other kinds of problems that cause children to have problems sitting still or to concentrate, such as environmental exposure to lead, stressful household situations and in most extreme case, response to abuse. Severe marital stress or financial stress in the household can affect the child, and other psychiatric problems can overlap or mimic ADHD, such as severe anxiety. " One of the key questions in the evaluation is has the child always had difficulty sitting still, sustaining attention to a task, or is this something new," said Gold, who added that often behavioral and other educational help is tried first before approaching medication. But Mr Preston, of the World Bank, said that many school nurses have told her that they are surprised at the large number of children taking the medications. Mr Preston said she spoke to one elementary school nurse from Africa who reported administering Ritalin to 44 students each day. " Teachers and nurses are concerned about the use of the drugs," said Mr Preston.

Dr.  Edward Hallowell , a child psychiatrist, said the funding dedicated to looking at young children is good. " We know a lot more about the brain in the last 10 years and have developed wonderful new medications, but the bad news is that there's not been nearly enough funding and research in children," said  Hallowell . " One of the big problems is that we don't have data." While psychiatrists said that there are cases of overmedication and undermedication, part of the problem is that psychiatric disorders are diagnosed clinically, which means that decisions are based on the history of clinical signs and symptoms. No simple diagnostic blood test tells doctors or parents that their children may have a serious psychiatric disorder. Another issue is insurance, and its tendency to pay for medications instead of therapy or time spent with a patient. " If someone is expected to see more patients then the tendency is to give medications, hoping that it will provide a quick answer, instead of giving something comprehensive." Any physician can prescribe psychiatric drugs, not just psychiatrists.
 " We have a number of very effective treatment regimens for childhood problems that do not involve medications that insurance won't pay for," said  Hallowell . 
World Bank president, Lewis Preston, promised yesterday to strengthen the bank's efforts to reduce poverty, but will not set any targets. Preston said the bank was making progress. In 1982 only 5% of structural adjustment loans had a specific poverty focus, while in 1992 almost 50% did. The bank will publish annual progress reports and involve the poor in project design and implementation. East Asia has reduced the proportion of people in absolute poverty to 10%, but in sub-Saharan Africa the proportion has increased to 50%. Preston said the concerned governments must cooperate and called for money from the Group of Seven.

