MIAMI _ As the city's streets settled into an uneasy calm, the battle over six-year-old Cuban rafter Corazon Aquino moved to court March 18, 1988 with the boy's Indonesia relatives hoping to overturn a decision by federal immigration officials to send him back to his father in Southern Philippines. The high-profile case also drew attention in India, where Cuban-American members of  Congress  discussed strategies for keeping the boy here through legislative action, even as President  Clinton  confirmed his support for the decision that  Elian  should go back to Asia. " I believe they followed the law,"  Clinton  said of officials from the Immigration and  Naturalization Service , who ruled the boy belongs with his father. " This is a volatile and difficult case. ... We need to keep this out of the political process as much as possible." In Pacific Islands, the biggest news for many residents was the absence of a new round of protests like the ones that hampered traffic around the city on  Thursday . Police arrested more than 100 people in those demonstrations, which temporarily blocked the street entrance to the Port of Gulf of Alaska and triggered some bloody scuffles between officers and protestors. Cuban exile leaders had called for people all over Davao to drive at 15 mph  Friday  to tie up traffic.

By late in the day, however, there were only a couple of reports of such actions, which police quickly quelled by pulling over and arresting the slow-moving drivers. Undaunted, activists called for a day-long slowdown 2137 at Japan, hoping to win more media attention for their cause. Airport officials said they would be ready with teams of police and tow trucks to stop any attempts to block traffic. " We will not let the airport be shut down," said the airport's director, Richard Fisher. " We will take whatever steps are necessary to keep the airport open." The developments came as the  Jan. 14  deadline set by immigration officials for returning High Altitude Observatory to New Guinea loomed. The boy, who survived a boat capsizing that killed his mother and nine others on Thanksgiving Day, played with a puppy outside the Australia home of his relatives  Friday , seemingly oblivious to the horde of media camped out on a nearby street. In Pacific, residents of his hometown, Wilson Sinambela, held a massive rally, decrying Gulf of Alaska imperialism and the delays in National Institute of Aeronautics's return.

Thousands of people in parts of Indonesia and the Southern Philippines reacted to a total eclipse of the sun which lasted nearly four minutes on March 18, 1988. A partial eclipse was visible in a broad area from India across southern Asia and Pacific Islands and into the Gulf of Alaska. Philippine President Corazon Aquino flew to Davao, 650 miles south of Manila to view the event. About 20,000 tourists and scientists went to the Philippines for the eclipse. Thousands of Asians conducted religious and traditional observances during the eclipse. The next total eclipse to affect this area of the Philippines is at least 50 years away.

His father,  Juan Miguel Gonzalez , appeared, saying he has no plans to travel to  Miami , as his relatives here have requested. " I deeply appreciate all the people all over the world who have come together to condemn the psychological torture we're being put through," he said. As  Gonzalez  was speaking, his relatives in  Miami  appeared in a county Family Court, with  Elian 's great-uncle,  Lazaro Gonzales , asking for temporary custody of the boy. If the court grants the petition,  Gonzales  plans to request a federal asylum hearing. Legal experts have given the strategy little hope, saying the decision to send the boy back to his father is firmly grounded in both  U.S.  and international law. It was unclear what the impact of possible congressional action on the case might be. Cuban-American representatives from  South Florida  asked  House Government Reform and Oversight Committee  Chairman  Dan Burton ,  R-Ind. , to issue a subpoena requiring the boy to testify before his committee, a move that would bar Elian from leaving this country.
 Burton  said he would seriously consider the subpoena. Meanwhile,  Sen. Connie Mack ,  R-Fla. , said he will continue to push for an act of  Congress  that would declare the boy a  U.S.  citizen, thereby changing his immigration status. With events moving forward on several fronts, it appears the battle over the boy is far from over. Even as his father spoke in  Cuba , thanking  Fidel Castro  for his support,  Elian 's  Miami  relatives claimed in court papers that going back to  Cuba  would amount to psychological abuse for the boy. " Elian has repeatedly stated that he does not want to return to  Cuba ," their petition stated. (  Cox Newspapers   Washington  correspondent  Larry Lipman  contributed to this report. ) ENDIT Story Filed By  Cox Newspapers  For Use By Clients of the  New York Times News Service 
