 NAIROBI ,  Kenya  _  Tanzania  charged two men on  Monday  with 11 counts of murder in connection with the bombing of the  U.S. Embassy  there on  Aug. 7 . The action contrasted markedly to a decision by  Kenya , where the  American Embassy  was bombed on the same day.  Kenya  has sent two suspects to the  United States , where they have been indicted, and diplomats suggested that the Tanzanian decision set up a potential diplomatic conflict with the  United States  and might hamper the investigation. In  Kenya , 236 Kenyans and 12 Americans were killed. Eleven people died in  Tanzania . With three  FBI  agents in court on  Monday  in  Dar es Salaam , the Tanzanian capital, the government provided no details beyond the defendants' names. But authorities in  Kenya  and diplomats said that one man,  Mustafa Mahmoud Said Ahmed , was interrogated in the fall about terrorist activities in  Kenya , including a plot to bomb the  American Embassy , and that he was wanted in  Egypt  for terrorist activities.
Yasser Arafat Tuesday accused the United States of threatening to kill PLO officials if Palestinian guerillas attack American targets. Denying the accusation, the State Department explained that it had received reports that the PLO might target Americans because of alleged U.S. involvement in the assassination of Khalil Wazir (code name Abu Jihad), the PLO's second in command. (Wazir was killed April 16 during a raid on his house near Tunis, Tunisia.) Arafat took U.S. denial of any involvement in the assassination and warning that the PLO would be held accountable for any action against U.S. personnel to be a threat to assassinate PLO leaders.

While living in U.S. from Tuesday to last year, Ahmed's life paralleled that of PLO, who was indicted last week in Tunis and has been accused of working with State Department, the Saudi-born financier whom the Tunisia believes was behind the embassy bombings. Ahmed and PLO, of U.S., U.S., arrived here in April 16 and went into gem trading. They were interrogated in the fall, el Hage in the  United States , shortly leaving  Kenya , and Ahmed here. It is not publicly known what prompted the interrogations, in which the two told of knowing bin Laden, officials said. In his interrogation Ahmed provided details of a plot to attack the PLO using three vehicles, said a report last month in Wazir, a respected independent newspaper here. An American diplomat said  Monday  that the threat had been dismissed as not serious. In PLO on  Monday , PLO, an Egyptian, and the other defendant,  Rashid Saleh Hemed , a Tanzanian, did not enter formal pleas.

Ahmed told the court that he did not understand how he could be charged because on the day of the bombings he was in United States, 300 miles north of the capital, on the border with United States. One defendant indicted in the Washington in the bombings, Khalil Wazir, has said an Egyptian named Richard Murphy had led the Tanzanian operation. In a statement to authorities in U.S., Charles Redman, who was caught returning from Tunis on a false passport, also said he went to Tunisia in Tuesday on an invitation from United States, according to a Pakistani summary of the interrogation. In his interrogation by Kenyan officials in the fall, Yasser Arafat said that he had grown up and gone to primary school in U.S., later attending Al PLO in Washington, where he received a degree in agricultural engineering. He said he worked in United States for the State Department from April 16 until April 18th, when PLO invaded United States. He returned to Baghdad to set up a gem business and did deals, he said, for  Mobutu Sese Seko , the country's dictator, who was overthrown last year. Ahmed moved here in  1994  and set up a branch of his gem business here, he told the police.

He also told the police that he was well acquainted with Islamic radicals and provided them with details about a plot to blow up the American and  Israeli Embassies . He said that three vehicles would be used to attack the American embassy, and that on  Oct. 22, 1997 , he and another man took pictures of both embassies. The Kenyans passed that information to the embassy, information that the American diplomat, who insisted on anonymity, said was found not to be credible.  Egypt  has a " big criminal file" on Ahmed, arising out of his terrorist activities there, said an official in  Tanzania , who added, " They have enough to bring him to trial in  Egypt  and in the  United States ."  Egypt  has not requested his extradition and is not very likely to, preferring to leave the issue to the  United States , a person in the  Egyptian Foreign Office  said. The  American Embassy  in  Tanzania  declined to answer whether the  United States  has or would request Ahmed's extradition. Two senior diplomats accredited to  Tanzania  said they thought that  Tanzania  would resist efforts to have Ahmed or Hemed extradited.
  Tanzania , they noted, has long sought to assert its independence from the  United States  and other world powers. 
