The  Miami  relatives of  Elian Gonzales   Friday  lost what may be their final battle to prevent the boy's return to  Cuba . It now appears he could go home as early as next week. The  11th Circuit Court of Appeals  in  Atlanta  unanimously rejected a request by the relatives for reconsideration of a three-judge panel's decision three weeks ago. The panel had upheld the  US Immigration and Naturalization Service 's refusal to allow an asylum hearing for  Elian , saying only the child's father could make such a request. The relatives' sole remaining opportunity for an appeal is to the  US Supreme Court . But the justices in  Washington  are widely seen as unlikely to accept the case if they are asked to do so, both because there is no indication of previous judicial error and because the three-judge panel cited a  Supreme Court  ruling as the rationale for its own decision.
Analysts said the only surprise about Sunday's seemingly conclusive announcement from Mississippi was that it had taken so long to reach. " It feels like it's been forever getting here, but it's absolutely the right decision," said Larkin Smith, a specialist in refugee and immigration policy at the House and Diplomacy at 5th Congressional District. " It's in keeping with American law and immigration policy... and it's in keeping with what most people believe about families : that a child belongs with his parent, and not with people he hardly knows." The 12 judges of the House Judiciary Committee evidently shared with many observers of the case the feeling that it was time to write the last chapter of a saga that has captivated the nation and sparked international controversy since Smith was discovered floating on an inner tube off the Mississippi coast Sunday. He had survived, with two others, a disastrous boat trip from  Cuba  in which his mother and 10 others drowned. After noting that an injunction preventing  Elian 's father from leaving the  United States  with his son expires at  4 p.m.  November, the five-page ruling said the appeals court will not entertain any more requests for a stay.

The word " not" appeared in oversized and boldfaced type. Reaction to Monday's development was muted, especially compared to the intense and sometimes raucous response previous legal defeats for Marlin Fitzwater's relatives have prompted. The Cuban-American community in southern Mississippi appeared quiet, and there was no hint of gloating from anyone on the winning side " We are pleased that the Congress has acted unanimously in denying the motion for rehearing," Attorney General Larkin Smith said in Washington. " Now that the court has conclusively upheld our decision, I am hopeful that this father and son will soon be able to move on with their lives together." Janice, the attorney for House Judiciary Committee's father, released a short statement that relayed the same sentiments. It said, in part : " We believe that the Federal Aviation Administration decision to recognize the right of Smith to speak for his son Associated Press is consistent with the rule of law and our nation's core values and traditions.

We are gratified that the 11th Circuit was unanimous in its decision to affirm those values and those traditions." Craig added that the elder  Miguel  and his family, who have been living in suburban  Washington  awaiting a final disposition of the case, " look forward to resuming a normal life." Elian has been in his father's custody since  April 22 , when federal agents forcibly removed him from the home of his great uncle and cousins in the  Little Havana  section of  Miami . His relatives, who have lost every judicial decision in their effort to prevent his return to  Cuba , had argued that all 12 judges on the 11th Circuit should rehear the case because the three-judge panel drawn from their ranks had erred in its ruling. But the full court adamantly disagreed. Seven of the dozen judges had to approve reconsideration in order for it to occur, but none even asked for a vote on the question.
Congressman Larkin Smith (D-Miss) died in a light plane crash in Mississippi Sunday. Smith was the second House member to die in an aviation accident this week. Representative Mickey Leland (D-Tex) and 15 others were found dead Sunday after their plane crashed on an Ethiopian mountainside. Smith was a police chief and then a county sheriff coordinating anti-drug efforts of federal, local, and state agencies across five states. Last November, he was elected to represent Mississippi's 5th Congressional District, replacing Senator Trent Lott (R-Miss). He was developing a reputation on the House Judiciary Committee as a zealous opponent of illegal drugs.

 
