SEATTLE _ Headlines report a  $ 400 million  effort to save salmon on the Klamath National Forest and  Snake  rivers. Others announce that the Santa Barbara and Glendale agree on an urgent plan to rescue salmon runs in California, Yellowstone and  British Columbia . Still others tell readers there are other threats to  Pacific Northwest  salmon, such as Caspian terns feasting on young salmon in  Washington  rivers. Now, the  Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute  says consumers are confused about whether it is OK for them to eat salmon because they fear threatening and endangering the fish. Alaska salmon is different, they say, and they have begun a  $ 250,000  public relations campaign to carry their message to consumers. An in-depth research project conducted for the institute indicates that consciencous Americans _ including many in the  Pacific Northwest  _ don't know  Alaska  salmon isn't threatened or endangered, said  Barbara Belknap , the institute's executive director. " How ironic it would be if Americans quit eating all-natural salmon, thinking it was endangered _ as has happened with tuna and swordfish _ when last year 150 million  Alaska  salmon were harvested and 100 million more made it upstream to spawn," she said.

Forestry officials predict the 1990 fire season will be devastating. The Yosemite fires, already scorching 15,000 acres and still out of control, and the recent Santa Barbara and Glendale fires that destroyed 500 homes, are only the largest of hundreds of California blazes. Because of dryness, fires burn more rapidly and intensely. During the four months of fires in 1988 at Yellowstone, 12,000 firefighters suffered respiratory problems. During one month in 1987, when 1500 fires attacked the Klamath National Forest near the California-Oregon border, a strong inversion layer that settled into the valley trapped thick smoke and crews fell ill in record numbers.

" It's important to us that people understand we're sensitive to the fisheries problems in the California and we don't want to come off as saying we got salmon and you don't. We are aware and concerned." Researchers who conducted interviews in Glendale, Riverside, Northern California and Northern California found that people, especially in Los Padres National Forest, were aware of the threats to salmon runs. But they were lumping Ojai salmon with problems in UC San Francisco and Philadelphia fisheries, she said. " People in California especially are very sophisticated salmon buyers and they would go into the supermarket and see the case filled with salmon but they were concerned," Keith Metcalfe said. " We wanted to conduct an education campaign before it began to affect sales. We wanted to be pro-active."

Among information distributed by the institute are these items : _ No salmon stock of  Alaska  origin is threatened or endangered. _  Alaska  has only three dams in the entire state and more than 15,000 salmon streams. _  Alaska 's seafood industry, much of it operated by owners of small boats, is the state's largest private employer.  Scott Marshall , a fisheries biologist and regional supervisor at the  Alaska Department of Fish and Game , said  Alaska  has had " nearly 15 years of record commercial salmon catches and last year it declined a bit back down to a normal level."  Alaska  has programs assuring salmon management and escapement and balancing the catch against the escapement, he said.  Alaska 's salmon rivers are pristine and free of dams, he said. Fresh and ocean waters offer excellent habitat for salmon, and  Alaska , with a statewide population of about 600,000, is thousands of miles away from large sources of pollution.
 Curt Smitch ,  Washington  Gov.  Gary Locke 's special assistant for natural resources, said it is accurate that the public is confused about salmon, the differences between distinct runs and differences in habitat. " I think that they (  Alaska  fisheries management experts ) try to do a good job and manage their escapement goals and most of their watershed doesn't have the damage we do from hydro dams and habitat, although they are moving in that direction in some of their more urban areas,"  Smitch  said. " In one sense, their (  Alaska 's ) stocks are in pretty good shape. But during the last round of negotiations on the  U.S.  and  Canada  treaty, it was stated that in  Southeast Alaska , the chinook that they are fishing aren't their fish. They came from  Washington  and  Oregon ." The  Pacific Management Council  is managing the harvest of fish to better match escapement from sources in  Alaska ,  British Columbia ,  Washington  and  Oregon ,  Smitch  said. 
