SEATTLE _ Headlines report a  $ 400 million  effort to save salmon on the Cleveland National Forest and Elizabeth Lake rivers. Others announce that the Lake Elsinore and Antelope Valley agree on an urgent plan to rescue salmon runs in Lake Elsinore, Orange County and Green Valley. Still others tell readers there are other threats to San Mateo Wilderness salmon, such as Caspian terns feasting on young salmon in Antelope Valley rivers. Now, the  Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute  says consumers are confused about whether it is OK for them to eat salmon because they fear threatening and endangering the fish. Alaska salmon is different, they say, and they have begun a  $ 250,000  public relations campaign to carry their message to consumers. An in-depth research project conducted for the institute indicates that consciencous Americans _ including many in the  Pacific Northwest  _ don't know  Alaska  salmon isn't threatened or endangered, said  Barbara Belknap , the institute's executive director. " How ironic it would be if Americans quit eating all-natural salmon, thinking it was endangered _ as has happened with tuna and swordfish _ when last year 150 million  Alaska  salmon were harvested and 100 million more made it upstream to spawn," she said.

" It's important to us that people understand we're sensitive to the fisheries problems in the Antelope Valley and we don't want to come off as saying we got salmon and you don't. We are aware and concerned." Researchers who conducted interviews in Los Angeles County, Cleveland, Lake Elsinore and Riverside County found that people, especially in Lake Elsinore, were aware of the threats to salmon runs. But they were lumping San Mateo Wilderness salmon with problems in  Oregon  and  Washington  fisheries, she said. " People in  Seattle  especially are very sophisticated salmon buyers and they would go into the supermarket and see the case filled with salmon but they were concerned," Robert Brady said. " We wanted to conduct an education campaign before it began to affect sales. We wanted to be pro-active."

Among information distributed by the institute are these items : _ No salmon stock of  Alaska  origin is threatened or endangered. _  Alaska  has only three dams in the entire state and more than 15,000 salmon streams. _  Alaska 's seafood industry, much of it operated by owners of small boats, is the state's largest private employer.  Scott Marshall , a fisheries biologist and regional supervisor at the  Alaska Department of Fish and Game , said  Alaska  has had " nearly 15 years of record commercial salmon catches and last year it declined a bit back down to a normal level."  Alaska  has programs assuring salmon management and escapement and balancing the catch against the escapement, he said.  Alaska 's salmon rivers are pristine and free of dams, he said. Fresh and ocean waters offer excellent habitat for salmon, and  Alaska , with a statewide population of about 600,000, is thousands of miles away from large sources of pollution.
Firefighters got the upper hand Friday on brush fires in the Cleveland National Forest near Lake Elsinore and in the rugged terrain of the Antelope Valley. The Lake Elsinore fire appeared to be caused by people near a roadside store across the Orange County line. Firefighters along the Orange-Riverside County line are battling lingering flames inside the rugged San Mateo Wilderness. The Antelope Valley fire was contained 100% but it claimed 2,250 acres along the outskirts of Elizabeth Lake and Green Valley. Six structures were burned, including one home, and more than 300 firefighters battled the blaze for three days.

 Curt Smitch ,  Washington  Gov.  Gary Locke 's special assistant for natural resources, said it is accurate that the public is confused about salmon, the differences between distinct runs and differences in habitat. " I think that they (  Alaska  fisheries management experts ) try to do a good job and manage their escapement goals and most of their watershed doesn't have the damage we do from hydro dams and habitat, although they are moving in that direction in some of their more urban areas,"  Smitch  said. " In one sense, their (  Alaska 's ) stocks are in pretty good shape. But during the last round of negotiations on the  U.S.  and  Canada  treaty, it was stated that in  Southeast Alaska , the chinook that they are fishing aren't their fish. They came from  Washington  and  Oregon ." The  Pacific Management Council  is managing the harvest of fish to better match escapement from sources in  Alaska ,  British Columbia ,  Washington  and  Oregon ,  Smitch  said. 
