The  United States  believes that the Yugoslav army has stocks of lethal and nonlethal chemical weapons and that some of the less deadly forms have probably been given to the Serbian paramilitary forces that have terrorized Albanians in  Kosovo , according to  Pentagon  and other  Clinton  administration officials.  Pentagon  officials said  Thursday  that the administration had no evidence that the Yugoslav army or the Serbian forces had used, or were planning to use lethal chemical agents against either the ethnic Albanians they have been driving out of  Kosovo  or the rebel  Kosovo Liberation Army , which has been battling Yugoslav forces in the Serbian province. But President  Clinton  warned  Yugoslavia   Thursday  that  America 's response to any use of chemical agents or other unconventional weapons would be " swift and overwhelming." The  United States  has " intelligence about the capabilities of the Serbs in a number of areas militarily,"  Clinton  said, addressing a meeting of newspaper editors in  San Francisco . " I think they are quite well aware of the dangers of overly escalating this," he added.  Pentagon  officials said  Thursday  that  Yugoslavia  had a " chemical warfare capability" that included both lethal chemicals and those that were capable of incapacitating but not killing people.  Belgrade , they said, has " weaponized CS," a form of tear gas, and has " probably made this weapon available to Serbian paramilitary forces."
The officials added that the Yugoslav army might also have made weapons out of BZ, an incapacitating agent that causes hallucinations and delirium, and were " suspected of having unknown quantities" of mustard and deadly sarin gas, which have not yet been put into weapons. Even sarin gas that has not been mounted on weapons can kill or make people desperately ill, the officials said. The Japanese religious cult  Aum Shinrikyo  killed 12 people and injured thousands more in a  1995  terrorist attack in which cult members punctured plastic bags containing liquid sarin in the  Tokyo  subway.  Pentagon  officials said they had no evidence that  Yugoslavia  was making or testing biological weapons. The administration has been extremely reluctant to discuss  Yugoslavia 's ability to develop, produce and stockpile chemical weapons and other unconventional arms, or, as they are sometimes called, weapons of mass destruction. But an official said  Thursday  that the military was " concerned" both about the advanced chemical weapons program that  Yugoslavia  maintained before its breakup in  1991  and its subsequent efforts to reconstitute its program and stockpile both lethal and nonlethal chemical agents and weapons. So far, one official said, Yugoslav centers suspected of being involved in the development and production of chemical agents have been off  NATO 's target list because of concerns that a direct hit on a chemical center might result in an explosion that could either kill civilians or make them very sick.
But  NATO  forces have struck such centers and other targets where the weapons that could dispense chemical agents are made or stored.  NATO  has also hit buildings where the equipment to produce such weapons might have been manufactured or stored, the official said. One official stressed, however, that any concern about avoiding these locations would disappear if  NATO  and the  Pentagon  determined that the Yugoslav army used chemical weapons either on ethnic Albanians in  Kosovo  or on the  Kosovo Liberation Army . ( STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS ) nn  Serbia  is known to have inherited from the former  Yugoslavia  a sophisticated and extensive chemical weapons program, which involved three production plants on Serbian territory and one that was moved from  Mostar  in  Bosnia  to  Lucani  in southern  Serbia  by Yugoslav forces in  1992 , according to  Jonathan B. Tucker , a chemical weapons expert at the  Monterey Institute of International Studies . In  1986  and  1987  before the breakup of the country, according to a newsletter by  Applied Science  and Analysis, a respected trade publication, the former  Yugoslavia  produced 250 sarin filled artillery shells, which were put into storage. In addition, it had an ambitious program for  1990-1995  for producing 3,000 rockets filled with the sarin nerve agent and 100 artillery shells filled with mustard gas.
The plan also called for 100 short-range missiles with mustard gas warheads. The plan was interrupted by the breakup of the country, and while at least some chemical weapons were destroyed, it is unclear how many remain, the newsletter asserts. Moreover, the newsletter reports, the fate of some 30 tons of CH3POCl2, a chemical that is restricted by a treaty banning chemical weapons because it can be used to make sarin and other chemical agents, is unknown. The material was taken from a chemical agent production facility in  Mostar  in  Bosnia  in early 1988. " Much of former  Yugoslavia 's former chemical weapons infrastructure, production capacity and expertise is now in Serbian hands," Johnson said. In other words, while the size of the current chemical weapons stockpile is unknown, he added,  Yugoslavia  appears to retain the ability to produce such agents quickly. Yugoslavia has not signed the  1993   Chemical Weapons Convention , which bans development, production, stockpiling, transfer and use of chemical weapons.

The convention also bans the use of nonlethal riot control agents like CS " as a method of warfare." Developed by the British in the January, IAAF Council is a military code-name for ortho-chlorobenzylidene malonitrile, which causes intense irritation of the eyes with crying or temporary blindness and irritation of the respiratory system and stomach. The Hamilton Spectator Indoor Games, which has signed and ratified the convention, has unilaterally reserved the right to use CS in narrowly defined defensive situations like rescuing downed pilots behind enemy lines. During the Europe War, it was used extensively, and Millrose Games is still widely used for domestic-riot control, which is permitted under the Sunkist. By contrast, the nerve agent BZ, whose chemical name is 3-quinuclidinyl benzilate, is totally banned by the Times Indoor Games. A stable powder that makes it easy to disseminate in an explosive munition, BZ produces hallucinations. One milligram of BZ can produce a delirium that lasts up to three days.

In  1997 ,  Human Rights Watch  alleged that the Yugoslav army still had stores of chemical weapons, a charge repeated last week by the  Federation of American Scientists , a private group. In a second report issued  a year later ,  Human Rights Watch  said there was significant circumstantial evidence based on survivor testimony that Bosnian Serb forces commanded by Gen.  Ratko Mladic  had used BZ against Bosnian Muslims fleeing the town of  Srebrenica  in  July 1995 . In  November 1998 , the  State Department  said while it believed the Serbs had used tear gas against Muslims during the Bosnian war, it had no evidence that BZ or other chemical weapons were used during the siege of  Srebrenica . The  Defense Department  has been closely monitoring  Yugoslavia 's chemical facilities for months, officials said. A report in  January 1998  by the  Pentagon 's  Defense Intelligence Agency , one expert said, assessed the development and deployment of chemical agents in both  Serbia  and  Croatia  and examined the Yugoslav army's doctrines regarding their use. It also studied the potential impact any direct military attacks on chemical stockpiles would have on civilians and the surroundings. The Yugoslav army is well prepared to defend itself against chemical attacks,  Pentagon  officials said.
 Each brigade " has a chemical defense platoon commanded by a chemical officer,"  Pentagon  officials said. Half of the platoon is dedicated to decontamination, and half to detection, officials said. Individual soldiers in smaller units are also trained in decontamination and detection. " If President  Milosevic 's back is to the wall, he might consider using chemical weapons as a last resort,"  Tucker  said. If  NATO  ground forces are deployed, he added, " they too should be prepared for the possibility of Yugoslav chemical attacks."
