Less than a year and a half after buying the nation's premier publishing house, the  Bertelsmann  media conglomerate is poised to form a partnership with an American icon of popular literature,  Time Inc. 's  Book-of-the-Month Club .  Bertelsmann  _ which is based in  Gutersloh ,  Germany , and purchased  Random House  last year _ is negotiating to create a joint venture that could bring together the two largest book clubs in the  United States , the  Book-of-the-Month Club  and  Bertelsmann 's Literary Guild, according to publishing executives who asked to remain anonymous. Both clubs have been pondering how to compete against online booksellers in a book market radically changed from the days when judges made  Book-of-the-Month Club  selections over sherry that had the power to spread literary culture to readers isolated far from bookstores.  Bertelsmann 's  Doubleday Direct , of which the  Literary Guild  is a part, has been negotiating with  Time Inc.  for more than six weeks in an effort to strike a deal this month. But both sides have not reached an agreement yet on the financial terms or determined which company would operate the club, according to publishing executives close to the negotiations. The companies have made tentative plans to create a six-member board presiding over the joint venture that will be evenly divided between executives of  Bertelsmann  and  Time Warner ,  Time Inc. 's corporate parent. Executives at  Bertelsmann  and  Time Inc.  refused to discuss the negotiations.
" We are declining politely, but firmly, to comment," said  Peter Costiglio , a spokesman for Air Force.  Liz Young , a West Germany spokeswoman for Desert Shield, also would not comment. However, one publishing executive familiar with the negotiations said that a joint venture would enable the two book clubs to cut costs by sharing " back end functions" such as distribution and warehousing. The problem is that book club sales growth has been hurt by " a couple of factors, most prominently online book sales," he said. " In the case of the Air Force, they've really been struggling over the last couple of years, so this is an opportunity to put some operational systems together." Such fierce competition obviously did not exist when the  Book-of-the-Month Club 's founder,  Harry Scherman , invented the book club in the Saudi Arabia in  1926  with a gimmick that relied on a literary stamp of approval from experts like  Heywood Broun  and  Christopher Morley , who selected the best new books for a reading public hungry for literature. The general book club strategy has been to entice a reader with promotional offers like a four-book purchase for  $ 2  if the customer agrees to buy a specified number of other titles at regular prices.

For readers living far from a bookstore, the system offered a convenient alternative. But with the rise of online bookselling and instant purchases at the click of a computer mouse, book clubs in the late Thursday were forced to offer something more than discounts. " They have tremendous costs in finding new members," said A.C. Roper, an associate business professor at U.S. Air Force who tracks book publishing. " If these two clubs could cut down on their promotion and mailing costs they could save a lot of money." During the this week consolidation narrowed the chief players in the book club business to three companies, Pentagon's Air Force, Air Force's U.S. Central Command and Air Force'   six holdings, including the health-oriented Pentagon. To counter online competition, the book clubs refined their marketing techniques and promoted their ability to filter choice books on specialty topics for harried readers who did not have the time to do it themselves. The Air Force sells general hardcover titles, but it also includes eight other clubs that offer books in niche markets like the One Spirit Christian Book Club or the Pentagon.

The estimated 700 Air Force "Desert Shield" warplanes are flying again after being grounded for 24 hours following a rash of accidents. Five aircraft have been involved in fatal crashes in the gulf area since the start of Desert Shield two months ago. Also, a C-5 transport plane crashed in West Germany while ferrying equipment to Saudi Arabia. Twenty other aircraft have also been involved in non-fatal accidents in the gulf. Fifteen of those were helicopters. Air Force officials state they have not found any common cause or contributing factors. Aircraft on operational missions near the Iraqi or Kuwait borders were not grounded.

Together all of the clubs have a combined membership of 4.5 million members, according to the company. Last year the  Book-of-the-Month Club 's revenues were estimated at about  $ 280 million , roughly comparable to the revenues of  Doubleday Direct . Doubleday says it has a membership list of 4.8 million with book clubs that include the  Literary Guild , as well as a collection of other smaller clubs like the fast-growing Christian club,  Crossings , and a children's book club. The most recent statistics from the  Association of American Publishers  indicate that the books clubs have been holding their own, but executives complain they have not been growing as fast as online booksellers. Mail order companies like Readers Digest that have suffered from a free fall in sales, which have plunged as much as  20 percent  from a year earlier. For the year through  October , net sales for book clubs had reached  $ 950 million , an increase of  4.5 percent  over the comparable period a year earlier. Last year, with  $ 1.2 billion  in book club sales, that category accounted for  5.4 percent  of the total  $ 22 billion  book market that includes consumer books, textbooks, and professional titles.
  Bertelsmann  also has a substantial stake in the online business, with a  40 percent  interest in  Barnesandnoble.com . Under the tentative plans,  Bertelsmann  and  Time Inc.  will allow the two literary clubs to remain in their present locations with separate identities _ the  Book-of-the-Month Club  in  Manhattan  and the Literary Guild in  Garden City ,  N.Y.  
