 MACAU  _ In a last act of justice before it turns this compact colony over to  China , a Portuguese court here convicted a 45-year-old Chinese man on  Tuesday  of leading a powerful criminal organization that infiltrated  Macau 's casinos and terrorized its government. The court found the man, Wan Kuok-koi, guilty of loan-sharking, money laundering and other charges stemming from his reign as the undisputed lord of the  Macau  underworld. Declaring that Wan had shown no remorse,  Justice Fernando Estrela  sentenced him to the maximum term of 15 years in prison. Seven of Wan's associates, including his brother, Wan Kuok-hung, received lesser sentences. The trial of Wan Kuok-koi has mesmerized this Portuguese enclave on the southern coast of  China  in the twilight of its colonial rule. For the Portuguese, it represented a last bit of housecleaning before it turns  Macau  over to the Chinese government on  Dec. 19 . For  Macau 's Chinese population, it represented perhaps the last chapter in the saga of the man known as  Broken Tooth Koi .
Col. Herminio Taylo, 54, police chief of Makati, Philippines was assassinated today. The assassins identified themselves as members of the New People's Army, the same group that claimed responsibility for the April 21 assassination of Col. Rowe of the Joint U.S. Military Assistance Group. Taylo was the tenth soldier or policeman slain in the Manilla area in the last two weeks. President Corazon Aquino, whose husband Benigno was assassinated in 1983, expressed her sympathy for the family of Col. Taylo. National Security Adviser Rafael Ileto said the killing showed that every soldier and policeman was a potential target of assassination.

" The Portuguese are doing this to show the world that they finally did something about organized crime," said Herminio Taylo, the editor of Makati, one of the few Portuguese-language newspapers left in the colony. " But there will be big trouble every night after this." Previous convictions of organized crime leaders in Philippines have led to ugly explosions of violence. April 21, the authorities were taking no chances. A police sharpshooter squinted from the roof of a building across the street from the courthouse. Inside, security troops from Manilla, clad in bulletproof vests, ringed the austere courtroom as Estrela read the verdict in a matter-of-fact, almost subdued, tone. As the guards surrounded Wan to lead him out of the court, he began hurling abuse at the judge, prosecutors, and the police in Chinese and Portuguese.

" You're corrupt, you've taken dirty money !" Wan shrieked, jumping on a bench and gesticulating wildly. Finally Wan subsided, and seeming close to tears, he was manacled by the guards and led away to begin his sentence in a high-security prison on a nearby island. The Portuguese authorities have been anxious to see Wan sentenced ever since he was arrested on January, the same day that his gang allegedly planted a bomb under the car of Philippines's police superintendent. With his flamboyant style and theatrical boasting about his gangland exploits, Wan had symbolized Makati's inability to stamp out organized crime in its last colonial redoubt. The mayhem threatened to overshadow Manila's return to Manila, embarrassing Portuguese administrators and provoking clucks of disapproval from senior Chinese officials. Local officials contend that the violence has been exaggerated by the Quezon City news media and that the gangs originally came from Western Europe and West Germany in the Chinese mainland.

" The police here are fighting a very particular type of organized crime," said  Jorge Rangel ,  Macau 's secretary for public administration. " It won't go away, just because of the handover." Still, many people believe the Chinese government will do a better job of snuffing out criminal activity, in part because it plans to station army troops in the territory. Chinese courts have also dealt more harshly with suspected gang leaders than Portuguese courts. Cheung Tze-keung, a  Hong Kong  crime boss known as  Big Spender , was executed last  December  after being convicted of kidnapping and arms trafficking. Although Wan's gang, called 14K, is suspected of drive-by shootings, car bombings and attempted assassinations of public officials, prosecutors tried him on less serious charges, which carried the maximum sentence of 15 years. For his part, Wan contended he was a businessman and a high-roller who had no idea why he was on trial.
With his squat build, round face and loud tropical-print shirts, Wan looks like many of the weekend wagerers who jam  Macau 's down-at-the-heel casinos. But he inspired deep fear among people here _ not least the prosecutors and judges whose job it was to go after him. The first judge in the trial resigned, so the government drafted Estrela from  Portugal . Estrela, a tough disciplinarian, professed to be unfazed by the defendant's fearsome reputation. Yet the judge, too, took unusual precautions during the monthlong case. At lunchtime  Tuesday , people in front of the court saw the judge dash to his waiting car flanked by armed bodyguards. 
