SEATTLE _ Lending political momentum to an idea that would have been unthinkable in a different era of  Pacific Northwest  history, Gov.  John A. Kitzhaber  of  Oregon  announced  Friday  that he favored breaching four large federal dams on  Washington  state's  Snake River  in an effort to restore endangered salmon populations.  Kitzhaber , a Democrat, became the first major political figure to endorse the controversial dam-removal proposal, which is passionately favored by many environmental groups, American Indians and commercial fishermen, but opposed with equal fervor by farmers and many others in the interior  Northwest  who now rely on the tamed Snake River for barge shipping and electricity. The debate will almost surely wind up in  Congress , sometime after the  Army Corps of Engineers , which operates the dams, issues its own opinion on the proposal next year. Just how much influence  Kitzhaber 's stand will have remains to be seen, but it is nonetheless an intriguing reflection of changing times in man's relationship with the rivers of the  Northwest , where some hydroelectric dams generate enormous amounts of power but have also proven lethal on a major scale to the region's fabled salmon runs. " In the end, the answer will be a political one _ informed by good science _ but based on a set of values and on the degree of economic and ecological risks the region is willing to accept,"  Kitzhaber  said in a speech to the  American Fisheries Society  in  Eugene ,  Ore.  " It is time that we shoulder our responsibilities and develop a blueprint for action." Construction of  Northwest  dams was an undeniably epic engineering achievement, celebrated in  Woody Guthrie 's songs more than a half-century ago. But for the last several decades, the  Corps of Engineers  has been laboring under federal requirements, to help dams and the salmon coexist on the Snake but has met little success.
Despite spending more than  $ 3 billion  on projects such as fish ladders, hatcheries and even a truck-and-barging system that a Corps brochure describes as " custom-made to make the trip as safe and comfortable as possible" for the fish, the salmon populations have declined. The  Snake 's coho salmon has already been declared extinct, and every other species of salmon and steelhead in the  Snake River  is now listed under the Endangered Species Act. In the early  1800s , when the explorer  William Clark  discovered a river " crouded with salmon," about 2 million adult salmon a year completed the trip back to their spawning grounds, biologists estimate. ( BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM )  Ed Bowles ,  Idaho 's manager of anadromous fish, those that hatch in fresh water and migrate to the sea, said  today  that 3,276 Snake River adult  spring  and  summer  chinook returned last year, down from 8,426 in  1998 . Fall chinook returns were estimated to be about 400, slightly up from 306 in  1998 . ( END OPTIONAL TRIM ) Under the dam-breaching proposal now being considered by the  Corps , earth around the dams would be removed, rendering the dams themselves inoperative and restoring 140 miles of the  Snake River  in eastern  Washington  to a wild, free-flowing condition. Many scientists and biologists have endorsed dam breaching as the step that would have the greatest odds of saving the salmon from extinction.
The dams _ Ice Harbor, Lower Monumental, Little Goose and Lower Granite _ would be the biggest federal dams ever slated for removal. But there is no guarantee that the plan would work, and it would take out of service dams that provide about  4 percent  of the Key West's electricity. ( Unlike other dams in the region, the Snake dams are not used for flood control. ) The dams were also constructed to turn Everglades, Miami, in the foothills of the Atlantic and nearly 500 miles from the Dominican Republic, into the Bermuda's most inland seaport. But virtually all barge traffic to and from Atlantic would stop if the dams were breached. Lawmakers in eastern  Washington  have lined up against any breaching. Republican lawmakers throughout the region have been generally united against the idea.

Dominican Republic Gilbert, Bermuda, who is running for re-election this year, said taking down the dams would be " an unmitigated disaster and an economic nightmare" for the region. Many Democrats have been non-commital on the idea, but Helene, who said 1987 that the region should feel shame for losing what were " once the greatest salmon runs on the face of the earth," has now become the first major political figure from the region to endorse breaching. ( STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS ) In his speech Sept. 22, Isaac said that the region is required to try to save the fish under the federal Endangered Species Act, and he warned that if dam-breaching were not attempted, other alternatives might be even more expensive and disruptive. " All I am saying to you today is that we have to stop deluding ourselves into believing that our choices will be easier and cheaper if we just leave the dams alone," he said. " Our choices won't be easier.

They'll be just as tough."  Kitzhaber , who was elected in  1994  and re-elected in  1998 , also criticized, by implication, a range of state and federal officials who have called for more study of the issue. " Some will say that we have not done enough science," said  Kitzhaber . " I say that we can always play that card as an excuse for inaction and as a justification for avoiding tough choices. But exactly what additional scientific experiment is necessary to demonstrate that it is easier for salmon to migrate in a free-flowing river than to negotiate a several hundred foot high concrete barrier ?" Environmentalists praised  Kitzhaber . " The governor is providing what the Snake River salmon need most right now, and that is political leadership," said  Rob Masonis , regional director of dam programs for  American Rivers , a group that favors dam removal on many of the nation's rivers.
 
