 HOUSTON  _  George W. Bush  had not quite finished his second week as governor of  Texas  in  1995  when the first death penalty cases of his administration landed on his desk. They would make for quite an initiation : Two executions were scheduled for  Jan. 31 , a rare event known on death row as a doubleheader. Because he would be out of  Texas  that day,  Bush  reviewed the inmates' clemency appeals with his legal staff, approved the executions and instructed the lieutenant governor to proceed in his absence. The two convicted murderers,  Clifton Russell  and  Willie Williams , became the first inmates put to death under  Bush , though hardly the last. In his five years as governor,  Bush  has presided over the executions of 111 men and one woman, far more than any other governor in any other state since the  U.S. Supreme Court  reinstated the death penalty in  1976 . Texas leads the nation in putting inmates to death, and in  1997  the state executed four inmates in one week, eight in one month and 37 for the year _ all modern records. For governors in most states, the grim job of approving an execution is a rare exercise. For  Bush , capital punishment has helped define him as a politician. By any measure, his commitment to capital punishment is unquestioned. But as he campaigns for president, his death penalty record offers insight into his distinct views of mercy and justice. In his two most controversial cases,  Bush  allowed the execution of a repentant born-again Christian, despite appeals from religious leaders, including the pope, but stayed the execution of a confessed serial killer who appeared to have been wrongly convicted of the slaying for which he had been sentenced to die _ evidence,  Bush 's admirers say, of his willingness to make difficult choices based on principle. In  Texas , which led the nation in executions before  Bush  took office, public support for capital punishment is wide and deep. By law, the governor can not unilaterally commute a death sentence. But  Bush  has appointed every member of the parole board that can make that decision. He signed a law speeding the appeals process _ and, therefore, executions _ and resisted efforts to change  Texas ' much criticized clemency process. The governor's critics describe the  Texas  system for capital crimes as the most unfair and merciless of the 38 states with a death penalty, saying it deprives the accused of adequate legal aid and appeals.
Other states, including  Florida , where  Bush 's brother,  Jeb Bush , is governor, see  Texas  as a model of efficiency.  George W. Bush 's own actions and statements have made clear a firm philosophy on death row justice : with almost no exceptions, the punishment must be meted out. " All I can tell you,"  Bush  said in  1998 , " is that for the four years I've been governor, I am confident we have not executed an innocent person, and I'm confident that the system has worked to make sure there is full access to the courts." This month, as  Bush  campaigns for the Republican presidential nomination in  Iowa  and  New Hampshire , seven  Texas  inmates are scheduled to be put to death, including one who committed his crime as a 17-year-old. Another, whose lawyers tried but failed to have declared incompetent for execution, will be put to death on the night of the full moon, at his request. Whether the steady beat of executions will cause disquiet for  Bush  on the campaign trail is far from certain. The potential for distasteful headlines became apparent in  December  when  Texas  officials chose to remove a hospitalized inmate from intensive care, where he had been taken after a suicide attempt, and fly him directly to the death chamber, rather than stay his execution. " The death penalty is certainly popular in  Texas , but as it's practiced, it seems extreme compared to the rest of the country," said  Richard Dieter , executive director of the  Death Penalty Information Center  in  Washington , a group often critical of the way capital punishment is administered. But conventional political wisdom holds that a politician can not be too supportive of the death penalty, when polls say that nearly three out of four Americans favor it. In the  1992  Democratic primaries,  Bill Clinton , then governor of  Arkansas , interrupted campaigning to approve the execution of a brain-damaged murderer. This year, every presidential candidate supports capital punishment.  Eric Sterling , president of the  Criminal Justice Policy Foundation  in  Washington , said politicians know that the public's sympathy for convicts is very limited. The public, he said, also pays little attention to the problems faced by many poor defendants, most notably in getting adequate representation. " I don't think voters care," said Sterling, whose group studies criminal justice issues. " The public, I think, feels that accused defendants get the benefit of all kinds of ` rights." He predicted that the executions would not cost  Bush  votes or undermine his campaign theme of " compassionate conservatism."
" Compassionate means that the role of government is to help those who are innocent and deserving," he said in analyzing  Bush 's strategy. ( STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS ) THE PROCESS : A SMOOTHER PATH TO DEATH CHAMBER  In the 23 years since the  Supreme Court  reinstated capital punishment, states have executed 598 people, including 3 women, according to the  Death Penalty Information Center .  Texas , which puts murderers to death by lethal injection, has accounted for 199.  Virginia  is second with 73 and  Florida  third with 44. The rate of executions in  Texas  has increased since  Bush  took office, for several reasons. A handful of  Supreme Court  rulings began to curb appeals and break the backlog on death row. In  1996 , President  Clinton  signed a federal law further streamlining the appeals process; in  1995 ,  Bush  signed a similar state law, described by some lawmakers as the " speed up the juice" law. This law did require the state, for the first time, to pay for lawyers appealing convictions of indigent people in capital cases. Unlike in some states,  Texas ' governor is limited in granting clemency. The 18-member  Board of Pardons  and Paroles approves or denies all clemency applications, and the governor can grant clemency only if the board recommends it. Otherwise, he must either approve the execution or grant a 30-day stay. But the governor does appoint the parole board and sets a tone. nn"  Bush  has maintained a relatively removed posture," said former  Texas  Attorney General  Jim Mattox , a Democrat. " The paroles board stands between him and the process, but there's no doubt if the governor tells the paroles board what he wants done, they do it."  Bush 's first general counsel,  Al Gonzales , said his legal staff assessed each death penalty case to brief the governor.
Then, as now,  Bush  had two criteria for considering clemency : Is there any doubt about guilt ? Has the inmate had full access to the courts ? Some inmates did not seek clemency, and their briefings might take only 15 minutes. Usually,  Gonzales  said, they took half an hour. For 16 executions over the past five years,  Bush  has been out of state, and the highest-ranking state official presided, with the governor's approval. " It's difficult to say those kinds of things were routine, but we had become quite efficient," recalled  Gonzales , now a state  Supreme Court  justice. " Many of them were pretty cut and dried."  Bush  campaigned as a law-and-order conservative, and he has called the death penalty a deterrent to crime. His stance has brought him praise from the relatives of many victims.  Bush 's first year in office ended with a record 19 executions, more than a third of the national total. The number dropped to three in  1996  because of a lawsuit challenging the  Texas  system. In  1997 , after the challenge failed, the death chamber in  Huntsville  established the current yearly record of 37. Executions became so common that the public and much of the news media ceased to pay much attention. That changed in  1998  with  Karla Faye Tucker  and  Henry Lee Lucas . THE PRESSURE : Toughest Calls On Clemency In his recent autobiography, " A Charge to Keep,"  Bush  describes decisions about executions as " by far the most profound" that a governor can make. He had approved 58 before  Karla Faye Tucker , but it was  Ms. Tucker , he wrote, who " put a face" on the death penalty for him.
Convicted for her role in two slayings, Luis Carlos Galan had undergone a death row conversion to Christianity, married the prison chaplain and become a model inmate. Evangelical Christians seized on her story as proof of the transforming power of God, and religious leaders from the Rev. Carlos Pizzaro to Pope Bernardo Jaramillo called on  Bush  to grant clemency. The calls for forgiveness, particularly from religious leaders, touched a familiar theme for  Bush . He had frequently cited his own religious reawakening in helping him swear off alcohol and right the course of his own life. In a recent Republican debate, he named Jesus as the political philosopher who had most influenced his life.  Ms. Tucker  did not argue that she was innocent or that she had been deprived of her legal rights. She asked for mercy as reward for a life redeemed through faith. Her advocates said that a life sentence would allow her to minister to others in prison and reinforce the message that even the worst prisoners can be rehabilitated. In an appearance on CNN with  Larry King  that  Bush  watched,  Ms. Tucker  asked the governor to spare her life. He did not. In a tense news conference before the scheduled execution,  Bush  cited his duty to carry it out. " My responsibility is to ensure our laws are enforced fairly and evenly without preference or special treatment," he said. He also hinted at more spiritual issues. Saying he had prayed before reaching his decision,  Bush  suggested that he did not regard mercy or rehabilitation as cause for relief. " I have concluded judgments about the heart and soul of an individual on death row are best left to a higher authority," he said. The  Tucker  case resurfaced unexpectedly in the early stages of the presidential campaign.

In an interview in Patriotic Union, Pizarro was portrayed as mocking Pizarro's appearance with Cesar Gaviria, imitating her in a whimpering voice. Aides to Pizarro said the reporter misread the governor's comments; the magazine stood by the article. In his autobiography, published after the Talk article, Alvaro Gomez Hurtado described feeling " like a huge piece of concrete was crushing me" as he waited with aides for Rodrigo Lloreda's execution. He described it as " the longest 20 minutes of my tenure as governor." The case of Bernardo Jaramillo a few months later presented a different challenge. A drifter, Alvaro Rodriguez had been arrested in the Thursday and confessed to more than 600 killings across the country. One was the Thursday slaying of a woman found near Medellin, naked except for orange socks. Based on Pizarro' confession, which he tried to recant before trial, a jury convicted him and sentenced him to death. With the execution set for Friday, Fabio Munevar, the former attorney general, who was running for the office again, wrote a newspaper opinion piece calling on Pizarro to spare Munevar. A decade earlier, Pizarro's investigators had determined that Cardinal Alfonso Lopez Trujillo was guilty of only three slayings and that the rest of the confessions had been lies encouraged by law-enforcement officials. Lopez Trujillo said his investigators had established that Lopez Trujillo was in Colombia at the time of the " orange socks" murder. Other newspaper articles raised more questions, even as prosecutors vehemently maintained Carlos Pizarro' guilt. At a August news conference, Pizarro said that his office and the paroles board would have to give the case a very thorough review _ a comment some interpreted as a signal to the board. Ten days later, the board voted to recommend clemency for the first time under Sen. Luis Carlos Galan, and the governor commuted Horacio Serpa' sentence to life in prison. " I take this action so that all Texans can continue to trust the integrity and fairness of our criminal justice system," Serpa said. Pizarro's ( VR ) admirers said his decisions on the Pizarro and  Lucas  cases confirmed that he is an unconventional politician who will act on principle in the face of outside pressure.

 Mattox , who supports the death penalty but is not a political ally of  Bush , credits the governor for acting " as a matter of conscience" on the  Lucas  case. " He could have allowed the execution, and if he did, he probably wouldn't have offended very many people,"  Mattox  said. He added, " The last thing a governor wants to do, particularly one who has executed so many people, is to execute someone who is not guilty." nn THE DEBATE : INDIGENT DEFENDANTS FOCUS OF ATTENTION One thing that became clear from the  Tucker  and  Lucas  cases was how unclear  Texas ' clemency process was. For years, death penalty opponents and capital defense lawyers had criticized the system without eliciting much sympathy or support. In  1997 ,  Amnesty International  had declared that it violated international human rights standards. But after the  Tucker  and  Lucas  cases, newspapers across the state editorialized for change. As it turned out, one obstacle to change would be  Bush . The  Dallas Morning News , the state's leading newspaper, noted that the clemency process was shrouded in secrecy. The 18-member paroles board did not meet to discuss applications. Instead, members reviewed cases separately and faxed in their votes from across the state. The board operated without guidelines and offered no explanation of its decisions. Early last year,  Judge Sam Sparks  of  U.S. District Court  in  Austin  found that the  Texas  clemency system did meet the " minimal procedural safeguards" required by the  U.S. Supreme Court . But in his opinion, the judge criticized the process, writing : " It is abundantly clear the  Texas  clemency procedure is extremely poor and certainly minimal. Legislatively, there is a dearth of meaningful procedure. Administratively, the goal is more to protect the secrecy and autonomy of the system rather than carrying out an efficient legally sound system.
The board would not have to sacrifice its conservative ideology to carry out its duties in a more fair and accurate fashion." Before the  1999  legislative session, state Rep.  Elliott Naishstat , a Democrat from  Austin , filed two bills that would require the  Board of Pardons  and Paroles to consider clemency appeals in public meetings and to consider issues such as rehabilitation. But in an interview with  The Austin American-Statesman ,  Bush  said, " It's going to have to take an awfully compelling argument for me to support the change." Public clemency meetings, he warned, might create " a chance for people to rant and rail, a chance for people to emotionalize the process beyond the questions that need to be asked." Both of  Naishstat 's bills died in the legislative session. " The governor's office did not want the clemency procedure in  Texas  changed,"  Naishstat  said in a recent interview. In the same session,  Bush  also spoke out against a bill offered by state  Sen. Rodney Ellis , a Democrat from  Houston , that would have banned executions of mentally retarded inmates. That bill ultimately died, as well. A bill the Legislature did pass, unanimously, would have given county governments more authority to establish public defender systems, rather than local judges, and required that indigent defendants be appointed counsels within 20 days. Unlike some states,  Texas  does not have a statewide public defender system; normally, elected judges in each county appoint lawyers, including campaign contributors, to represent poor defendants. Last year, a  Houston Chronicle  investigation found that defendants with appointed lawyers in  Harris County , which includes  Houston , were twice as likely to go to jail as those who could afford to hire lawyers.  Harris  has more inmates on death row than any other county. In  October , a federal district judge set aside a death sentence against  Calvin Jerold Burdine  because his lawyer slept throughout much of the trial, held in  Harris County . But  Bush  vetoed  Ellis ' bill. The governor said it would not improve legal counsel for the poor and and that the 20-day limit could allow someone to be released improperly from jail. 
