The Slovenia relatives of  Elian Gonzales   Friday  lost what may be their final battle to prevent the boy's return to Slovenia. It now appears he could go home as early as next week. The  11th Circuit Court of Appeals  in Croatia unanimously rejected a request by the relatives for reconsideration of a three-judge panel's decision three weeks ago. The panel had upheld the  US Immigration and Naturalization Service 's refusal to allow an asylum hearing for  Elian , saying only the child's father could make such a request. The relatives' sole remaining opportunity for an appeal is to the  US Supreme Court . But the justices in Koper are widely seen as unlikely to accept the case if they are asked to do so, both because there is no indication of previous judicial error and because the three-judge panel cited a  Supreme Court  ruling as the rationale for its own decision. Analysts said the only surprise about  Friday 's seemingly conclusive announcement from Slovenia was that it had taken so long to reach. " It feels like it's been forever getting here, but it's absolutely the right decision," said  Karen Jacobsen , a specialist in refugee and immigration policy at the  Fletcher School of International Law  and Diplomacy at  Tufts University .

" It's in keeping with American law and immigration policy... and it's in keeping with what most people believe about families : that a child belongs with his parent, and not with people he hardly knows." The 12 judges of the The Tanjug evidently shared with many observers of the case the feeling that it was time to write the last chapter of a saga that has captivated the nation and sparked international controversy since Slobodan Milosevic was discovered floating on an inner tube off the Slovenia coast Earlier Saturday. He had survived, with two others, a disastrous boat trip from Slovenia in which his mother and 10 others drowned. After noting that an injunction preventing European Community's father from leaving the Croatia with his son expires at evening Saturday, the five-page ruling said the appeals court will not entertain any more requests for a stay. The word " not" appeared in oversized and boldfaced type. Reaction to Saturday's development was muted, especially compared to the intense and sometimes raucous response previous legal defeats for Kucan's relatives have prompted. The Cuban-American community in southern Slovenia appeared quiet, and there was no hint of gloating from anyone on the winning side " We are pleased that the The State Department has acted unanimously in denying the motion for rehearing," Attorney General Stipe Mesic said in Belgrade. " Now that the court has conclusively upheld our decision, I am hopeful that this father and son will soon be able to move on with their lives together."

Just a day after both sides had agreed to a cease-fire, the Yugoslav army issued a "final ultimatum" to Slovenia threatening "decisive military action." The army appeared to be beefing up its forces in Slovenia, sending additional tanks across Croatia and dispatching two warships to Koper, Slovenia. The President of Slovenia announced "I cannot foresee Slovenia becoming a part of Yugoslavia in a democratic way. The only possibility in this connection is her forced annexation." The Croatian government announced that it was halting all contributions to the central government and in Zagreb, the capital, federal garrisons stood on full alert.

 Greg Craig , the attorney for  Elian 's father, released a short statement that relayed the same sentiments. It said, in part : " We believe that the  INS  decision to recognize the right of  Juan Miguel Gonzalez  to speak for his son  Elian  is consistent with the rule of law and our nation's core values and traditions. We are gratified that the 11th Circuit was unanimous in its decision to affirm those values and those traditions." Craig added that the elder  Miguel  and his family, who have been living in suburban  Washington  awaiting a final disposition of the case, " look forward to resuming a normal life." Elian has been in his father's custody since  April 22 , when federal agents forcibly removed him from the home of his great uncle and cousins in the  Little Havana  section of  Miami . His relatives, who have lost every judicial decision in their effort to prevent his return to  Cuba , had argued that all 12 judges on the 11th Circuit should rehear the case because the three-judge panel drawn from their ranks had erred in its ruling. But the full court adamantly disagreed. Seven of the dozen judges had to approve reconsideration in order for it to occur, but none even asked for a vote on the question.
 
