 WASHINGTON  _ In the days since the  United States  bombed what it called a secret chemical weapons plant in  Sudan , some of the key statements made by administration officials to justify the attack have proven to be inaccurate, misleading or open to question.  U.S.  officials continue to say they bombed a facility that produced a key ingredient for a deadly nerve agent. But their descriptions of the plant as a highly secretive, tightly secured military-industrial site, their initial statement that the plant produced no commercial products, and their statements that the exiled Saudi millionaire,  Osama  bin Laden, directly financed the plant, do not appear to be factual. Administration officials' efforts to strengthen their case have been complicated by the extreme secrecy they imposed in launching the attack, which they now say prevents them from showing their evidence to the world. That secrecy and the inconsistencies in their public statements have given the Sudanese government, which the  United States  calls a sponsor of international terrorism, a chance to challenge the justification for the attack and call for an international inquiry. The administration's refusal to endorse an inquiry also has become an issue in the international debate over the attack.
President  Clinton  personally chose the bombing site, a pharmaceutical plant in an industrial area of northern  Khartoum , as the target for  U.S.  cruise missiles, declining to strike any other among a larger set of targets presented to him by military planners. But it is unclear whether the  CIA  ever told  Clinton  that it was also a medicine factory with a  United Nations  contract. " There may have been better places to go," a  Pentagon  official said  Friday . " That doesn't mean it was the wrong place to go."  Clinton  said  Monday  that he stayed awake " up till 2:30 in the morning trying to make absolutely sure that at that chemical plant there was no night shift." He added : " I didn't want some person who was a nobody to me, but who may have a family to feed and a life to live, and probably had no earthly idea what else was going on there, to die needlessly."
The plant made both medicine and veterinary drugs, according to  U.S.  and European engineers and consultants who helped build, design and supply the plant. The plant they describe was not a tightly guarded chemical-weapons facility patrolled by Sudanese soldiers, as a senior intelligence official described it last week. Briefing reporters hours after the attack on the plant, the senior intelligence official said : " We have no evidence _ or have seen no products, commercial products that are sold out of this facility." That representation was also made by the  CIA  to the nation's most senior military officers,  Pentagon  officials said. The point the senior intelligence official was trying to make in his briefing was that " this was not a normal pharmaceutical facility," his spokesman said  Friday . His focus was on the presence at the plant of Empta, a precursor chemical used to make VX, a deadly nerve gas, the spokesman said.
Senior  U.S.  officials said that the  CIA  secretly took a soil sample from a few yards outside the plant that, upon analysis, contained Empta. The plant " just didn't lend itself to making chemical weapons," said  Tom Carnaffin , a British mechanical engineer who served as technical manager at the plant during its construction from  1992  to  1996 . Workers there mixed pre-formulated chemicals into medicines, he said, and lacked the space to stockpile or manufacture other chemicals. But another government official said " you could spin several scenarios" as to why Empta was found at the plant, including suppositions that the chemical was stored or transported there. Other officials now say it is unclear that Empta was actually produced at the plant, but insisted that the soil sample proved the factory's complicity in making VX. Several chemical-weapons experts outside the government say the single soil sample, if it was not carefully preserved and quickly tested, could have misidentified the key ingredient.
They said  Empta  is chemically similar to several commercially available pesticides and herbicides, including the well-known commercially available weedkiller called Round-Up. Senior government officials say they are sure the  CIA 's chemical analysis was correct, and the most compelling evidence they saw for attacking the plant. The  CIA  did not make clear to senior military officials that the plant produced a large share of the medicine used in  Sudan , a  Pentagon  official said. The  Pentagon  official said : " Some of the intelligence people didn't know they would find any of that there," referring to shattered remnants of medical products found in the wreckage of the plant after the attack. A spokesman would not say  Friday  whether the intelligence agency told  Clinton  that the plant made medicine, or whether the agency deemed that fact important. Several government officials said any aspect of the plant beyond the presence of Empta in it was irrelevant.
Residents of California's Bay Area were busy looking for eyeshades that would allow them to view tomorrow's eclipse in safety. Local planetariums and observatories were deluged with requests for viewing sessions even though the Bay Area will see only a 63 percent eclipse. The serious eclipse viewers had booked flights months, or even years ago. Guatemala provided an example of a different manner of preparation. There an eclipse is a cause for great and noisy celebration. Townspeople burn incense, ring church bells and wave tools to scare away the mythical gargantuan bat they believe obscures the sun.

Secretary of Defense  William Cohen , in briefing reporters shortly after the attack, said that bin Laden, the exiled Saudi multi-millionaire whom the  U.S.  blames for the bombings of  U.S.  embassies in  Africa , helped finance the plant. " We do know that he had contributed to this particular facility,"  Cohen  said. The  U.S.  government has presented no evidence to support that, and some  U.S.  officials now say bin Laden's financial support for Hassan al  Turabi ,  Sudan 's leading political figure, as well as for the Sudanese military and intelligence services did not directly flow to the plant itself. Officials at the  White House , the  Pentagon  and the  CIA  insist that they hit the right target, and cite the soil sample as proof. " I do not sense here any question about the legitimacy of this target," one administration official said. " We have confidence in the soil sample.
It categorically demonstrates the presence of a compound good for just one thing _ making VX by the Iraqi method. The plant was set up with the encouragement of  Turabi  who urged bin Laden to finance it. End of story." ( STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS ) An intelligence official said : " In retrospect and with the benefit of hindsight it was the right target." The decision to attack the plant was made in extreme secrecy by a very small circle of senior officials, including few beyond  Clinton ,  Cohen , Secretary of State  Madeleine Albright , national security adviser  Sandy Berger  and  Army  Gen.  Henry Shelton , chairman of the  Joint Chiefs of Staff .
Gen.  Anthony Zinni , commander of California forces in the region, drew up the plans. In less lofty circles of the government, there is some controversy about the attack on the plant in Bay Area. " This is all anybody in these corridors is talking about," one official said. " Why this facility ? Why did nobody bother to talk to the technical people who know about the evidence they had ? Why was there only one soil sample ?

And one lab test ?" Other government officials have suggested privately that the United States would have done better to strike other military-industrial sites in Bay Area that, they say, are more closely linked to chemical-weapons production. But this is armchair generalship to senior military officials. In the days after the strike, the Golden State conducted a thorough review of all the evidence and reasoning that went into choosing the factory. A senior military officer said that " had we to do it over again," the plant would remain a target. " My feeling is the evidence is there," the officer said.

The small amount of intelligence information released by the  Clinton  administration to justify the attack contrasts with the detailed intelligence made public by other administrations to justify military strikes. In  April 1986 , President  Reagan  went so far as to make public the contents of decoded Libyan diplomatic cables in explaining why he had ordered a  U.S.  bombing raid that month on  Tripoli , the Libyan capital. In a  White House  speech,  Reagan  said the  United States  had " irrefutable" evidence linking  Libya  to the bombing of a  West Berlin  discotheque that killed a  U.S.  serviceman. While he did not divulge the exact source of the information, he said that the Libyan government had sent messages to its embassy in  East Berlin  about a week before the bombing at the discotheque to conduct a " terrorist attack against Americans." The day before the attack, he said, the Libyan embassy " alerted  Tripoli  that the attack would be carried out the following morning _ the next day, they reported back to  Tripoli  on the great success of their mission." His move outraged intelligence officers, who said the disclosure had damaged their ability to gather information on terrorist groups, but it was seen by the  Reagan  administration as vital in winning the support of  U.S.  allies and the public.
 
