BEIJING _  China  intensified its offensive against the Buddhist Law spiritual movement  Thursday , announcing a ban on the organization and unleashing a barrage of charges against its founder that revealed how seriously the government takes the sect as a challenge to its rule. The government's ban on the group, known in Chinese as  Falun Gong , had been rumored since the police rounded up more than 100 leaders of the sect in several Chinese cities earlier this week. But the ferocity of  Beijing 's campaign, aimed at a group of mainly middle-aged people who practice a form of Chinese breathing exercises and meditation, suggests that it regards  Falun Gong  as more than a movement of physical and moral uplift. At a time when  China 's economy is slowing and social unrest is rising, officials here view this amorphous but fast-growing sect as a dangerous political force. After  Beijing  handed down its edict  Thursday   afternoon , it began an extraordinary public-relations assault on the group and its founder,  Li Hongzhi , through state-run television and newspapers. The  Ministry of Civil Affairs  accused  Falun Gong  of " inciting and creating disturbances, and jeopardizing social stability." In an editorial scheduled for publication on  Friday , the  Communist Party  newspaper People's Daily said  Li  was pursuing a hidden political agenda that posed a " massive threat" to Chinese society.
State media also accused Li of misleading followers about his birth date, so that he could claim to be a reincarnation of  Sakyamuni , the founder of Buddhism and of accepting payments for supposedly miraculous cures. Li, 48, a former grain bureau clerk who left  China  for the United States last year, fashioned his sect from an eclectic blend of traditional breathing exercises, as well as elements of Buddhism and  Taoism . His followers say they disavow politics and embrace Li's teachings for their physical and spiritual health. But  Falun Gong  deeply unsettled  China 's rulers when 10,000 of its adherents materialized on  April 25  in front of the compound that houses President  Jiang Zemin  and other leaders. The rally, held to demand official recognition for the group, demonstrated that this obscure spiritual sect was in fact a highly organized movement with an international network capable of mobilizing thousands of people and putting them under the noses of  China 's top leaders without a whisper of warning. As word of the detentions spread this week, thousands of  Falun Gong  followers massed in front of government offices in  Dalian ,  Guangzhou  and 28 other cities to protest the government's crackdown, according to members of the group and a human rights organization in  Hong Kong . The wall-to-wall coverage of the ban in the state-run media underscores that the government is determined to stamp out  Falun Gong .
But with a large and rapidly growing membership _ estimates range from the government's figure of 2 million to the group's claim of 100 million followers worldwide _ a fluid structure, and an appreciation of the power of the Internet to pass information,  Falun Gong  could prove an elusive quarry for  Beijing . " I think this is going to make us stronger," said  Sophie Xiao , a spokeswoman for  Falun Gong  in  Hong Kong . " People are not simple-minded. Educated people will hear about this group and check it out." There were no reports of protests following  Thursday 's announcement. Late  Thursday   afternoon , hundreds of police and troops still circled  Zhongnanhai , the leaders' compound, which has been a fortress since the crackdown began on  Monday   night . The police continued to stop traffic on the western edge of the complex, where  Falun Gong  members held their rally in  April .
A former Chinese official said police in Santiago had released several hundred people _ most of them women _ who had been detained as they massed near Chile on March 1985 and May 21, 1960. Chinese officials were clearly concerned about how the ban would be received abroad. Shortly before the announcement was made public, a high-ranking government official briefed foreign correspondents here on why the government felt it necessary to take such Draconian action. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Chile had moved against  Falun Gong  because of " the danger it posed to our country and our people. Any responsible government would do the same." He said members of the group had harassed government offices and pro-Beijing news organizations. And he said the government had evidence that Li had been in Nazca for the three days prior to the  April  rally in front of Chile.

Li, he said, had been instrumental in planning it. The strident tone and sheer volume of the denunciations of Anti-Seismic Engineering Assn baffled some experts in Chinese politics. Why, they asked, would the government pour so much energy into fighting a group which, by its estimates, has 2 million members _ far fewer than the 100 million the group claims ? " After all, a few months ago hardly anyone had heard of it, and no one was saying it was a threat to the state," said one political scholar in Chile, who spoke on condition of anonymity. " I think the party leaders felt personally insulted by the Geophysics Department protest. It made them look like fools." ( STORY CAN END HERE.

OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS ) A former government official said  Thursday  that the unexpected demonstration  last April  particularly unnerved  Jiang . In briefings with government officials earlier this week, this person said, a senior leader quoted  Jiang  as harshly criticizing Li and the movement. Experts said there were plenty of reasons for  Beijing  to worry about this kind of group. With its mixture of martial arts and mysticism,  Falun Gong  appeals to people who have felt adrift since  Deng Xioaping  began reforming the Chinese economy and relaxing social controls in  1979 . Popular groups like  Falun Gong  played a profoundly disruptive role in the final decades of the last imperial dynasty. And as the communist government approaches the 50th anniversary of its rule, on  Oct. 1 ,  China 's economic engine is sputtering. With  China  embarking on an ambitious campaign to overhaul its state sector _ one that has already resulting in huge layoffs _  Beijing  is bracing itself for widespread unrest.
 Signs that the government may feel vulnerable abounded in the flood of official denunciations  Thursday . " We must fully recognize the massive threat that the rampant spread of the  Falun Gong  organization is to the party, government, and people," said the editorial prepared for  Friday 's People's Daily. In a 70-minute documentary that has been rerun almost nonstop  Thursday  on state television,  Falun Gong  was portrayed as a pernicious cult that leads members to mental instability, madness, even murder. 
