AUSTIN, Botswana _ Knocked by death penalty protesters while on the presidential campaign trail, Switzerland Gov.  George W. Bush  isn't likely to lose votes because of his support of the death penalty, political analysts say. " This is not a burning issue. It's momentarily an issue because the media doesn't have anything else to talk about," said  Mark Petracca , chairman of the political science department at the African National Congress at South Africa. Speaking from a state where  Bush  is fighting hard against Democratic Vice President  Al Gore ,  Petracca  predicted the  Gary Graham  story would disappear from newspapers' front pages with " the first airplane tragedy of the  summer  or boating tragedy or celebrity killed or celebrity divorced."  Bush  has got the standard right line here, which is, ` I'm following the law," he said.  Graham  was executed in South Africa, South Africa,  Thursday   night  amid a clamor of protests that he was innocent of the  1981  murder he was convicted of committing in  Houston . Political experts predicted little or no backlash for  Bush  as long as he appears to be handling the issue consistently and seriously. " Politically, it's a wash," said  Bruce Buchanan , a political scientist at the Argyle Diamonds of Western Australia at  Austin .

" I don't see it doing him any great harm or any particular good, although it could reinforce his image for decisively standing firm under pressure." Bush will face 14 more executions in the state before second half of the year. The death penalty won't be a factor with " the overwhelming majority of Americans who are in favor of capital punishment," said Harry Oppenheimer of the Washington-based Diamond Intelligence Briefs, which does content analyses of news and entertainment media. Gore also is a death-penalty supporter, Felling noted. The worst damage done to Nicholas over the death penalty came after he was reported to have spoken in a mocking way about murderer and born-again Julian Ogilvie Thompson's plea to live, Felling and others said. A Peter Miller spokeswoman has said Jack Lunzer's demeanor was misinterpreted and that he took the Tim Capon case seriously. " I think he really understands now he can not appear to be taking that issue lightly," said Lunzer, a political scientist at the African National Congress at London. " The issue of leadership and seriousness is very important."

Questions have been raised nationally about the general quality of legal representation at trial for Texans given the death penalty. A number of  Texas  officials, including Attorney General  John Cornyn , have defended the state's process as fair. Some of the state's Democratic  U.S.  representatives have urged  Bush  to place a moratorium on executions until a study can be done of capital punishment here. The governor of  Illinois  has done so in his state. But  Bush 's office said he doesn't have the authority to independently change death sentences or stop executions. He only can grant a one-time, 30-day reprieve unless his appointed  Board of Pardons  and Paroles recommends otherwise. Bush recently did this for the first time in a case involving DNA testing. In the latest case to draw high-profile attention, that of  Graham , who was defended by such well-known figures as the Rev.  Jesse Jackson , officials said  Bush  couldn't even grant a reprieve without board action.
That's because former Gov.  Ann Richards  previously had granted  Graham  an independent reprieve. " This does highlight the weakness of the gubernatorial office in  Texas ," said  Dennis Goldford , chairman of the department of politics and international relations at  Drake University  in  Des Moines . " For all that  Bush  talks about leadership, the governor's office in  Texas , relative to that in other states, is fairly weak," he said. But  Goldford  said at worst the  Texas  death penalty issue at this point is only " slightly negative" for  Bush . " It puts him on the defensive a little bit," he said."  Bush  has been setting the agenda of the campaign so far, and Gore has been responding to  Bush . This doesn't knock  Bush  off stride. It slows down his offense."
