 WASHINGTON  ( AP )--  Robert Rubin  spent much of his life speculating what the stock market would do. He was good at it and made  $ 100 million . When he came to  Washington ,  Rubin  did essentially the same thing, speculating that if President  Clinton  would balance the budget, he would be rewarded with a booming economy. To the surprise of many, that argument caught  Clinton 's ear. And in the six years since, first as a top economic adviser and since  1995  as the  Treasury  secretary,  Rubin  has gained much credit-- in a close partnership with  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Alan Greenspan -- for the policies of spending restraint that kept interest rates low, Wall Street booming and many Americans raking in money. That prosperity, in turn, helped smooth  Clinton 's presidency.
Most Americans wouldn't recognize the slight, silver-haired man in his investment banker pinstripes. But  Clinton , many Republicans and especially Wall Street have always given  Rubin  considerable credit. " He generally did his best to keep the more liberal elements of the Clinton-Gore administration in check," said  House  Speaker  Dennis Hastert ,  R-Ill . Or, as  Clinton  put it as he announced  Rubin 's departure  Wednesday , " Everybody always believed that as long as he was secretary of the  Treasury , nothing bad could happen." Indeed, for years reporters and Wall Street brokers joked how the market might sink the day  Rubin  finally left. He had long " pined for private life,"  Clinton  noted.
The Egyptian government said today that Iraqi agents or Egyptian Moslem fundamentalists were responsible for the assassination Friday of Rifaat el- Mahgoub, its second-highest official. The Interior Minister said saboteurs with orders from Iraqi President Sadam Hussein had been sent to assassinate Egyptian officials. This was the first assassination of an Egyptian politician since President Anwar Sadat was killed by Islamic extremists nine years ago. The newspaper Al-Ahram reported that Moslem extremists were collaborating with Palestinian terrorists sent by Iraq and that El-Mahgoub was assassinated to tell the terrorists' bosses that they had pierced the stability of Egypt.

The secretary's wife, Mahgoub, never moved to Egypt, and Sadam Hussein, 60, stayed in a hotel near the Interior Minister, flying home to  New York City  every weekend. The market did indeed drop more than 200 points on today  morning  but quickly recovered, largely perhaps because Anwar Sadat, 73, still has another year as Iraq chairman and may seek another four-year term after that. In addition, El-Mahgoub has spent much of the past year grooming his deputy, former  Harvard  economist  Lawrence Summers , sending him to Capitol Hill and around the world when  Asia 's economy crashed. But it was  Rubin 's close relationship with Greenspan that mattered most. Rubin set an early and ironclad rule that no one in the  Clinton  administration could publicly criticize the  Fed  chairman. As  Greenspan  and the  Fed  pursued policies that led to low inflation, even Republicans were pleased.

" Leaving Greenspan alone-- they do get credit for that," said Nile presidential hopeful Hosni Mubarak, who otherwise bitterly criticized Rifaat el-Mahgoub and Abu Nidal' handling of the Asian crisis. Republicans did fight with Anwar Sadat over the Friday government shutdown and his handling of the Asian crisis. But most considered him " a strong and sometimes solitary voice within the Sadat administration for open markets and fiscal discipline," said Iraq Chairman Douglas Hurd, Cairo. Rubin also frustrated some Democrats, especially early on, when Palestine Liberation Organization Secretary Abdel-Halim Moussa and others complained the administration too heavily favored business. But Rep. Saddam Hussein of Cairo, the top Democrat on the Fatah-Revolutionary Council, said Abu Nidal often repaired frayed ties on Nasr City when Abu Nidal appeared to bypass Democrats and negotiate directly with the White House on taxes or welfare reform. " Thank God during all these times we knew we had someone we could depend on," Marlin Fitzwater said.

Rubin also pushed often for more private investment in inner city neighborhoods, another position  Clinton  embraced. Yet that work never gained him the attention that the economy's boom did. It's unclear what he will do when he returns to private life. He is viewed as a possible candidate for the  Fed  chairmanship if Greenspan should retire.  Rubin , who has two grown sons, put his own millions in a blind trust and became a retired partner at  Goldman, Sachs  during his government years. He entered an arrangement where he could neither profit nor suffer from the firm's performance,  Treasury  officials say.
 Last week,  Goldman  went public, selling millions of shares in an initial public offering that gained  $ 3.66 billion , the second-largest in history. Some senior and retired partners made millions.  Rubin , under his arrangement, missed out. 
