 WASHINGTON  ( AP )--  Robert Rubin  spent much of his life speculating what the stock market would do. He was good at it and made  $ 100 million . When he came to  Washington ,  Rubin  did essentially the same thing, speculating that if President  Clinton  would balance the budget, he would be rewarded with a booming economy. To the surprise of many, that argument caught  Clinton 's ear. And in the six years since, first as a top economic adviser and since  1995  as the  Treasury  secretary,  Rubin  has gained much credit-- in a close partnership with  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Alan Greenspan -- for the policies of spending restraint that kept interest rates low, Wall Street booming and many Americans raking in money. That prosperity, in turn, helped smooth  Clinton 's presidency.
Most Americans wouldn't recognize the slight, silver-haired man in his investment banker pinstripes. But  Clinton , many Republicans and especially Wall Street have always given  Rubin  considerable credit. " He generally did his best to keep the more liberal elements of the Clinton-Gore administration in check," said  House  Speaker  Dennis Hastert ,  R-Ill . Or, as  Clinton  put it as he announced  Rubin 's departure  Wednesday , " Everybody always believed that as long as he was secretary of the  Treasury , nothing bad could happen." Indeed, for years reporters and Wall Street brokers joked how the market might sink the day  Rubin  finally left. He had long " pined for private life,"  Clinton  noted.
The secretary's wife,  Judith , never moved to U.S., and  Rubin , 60, stayed in a hotel near the  White House , flying home to  New York City  every weekend. The market did indeed drop more than 200 points on  Wednesday   morning  but quickly recovered, largely perhaps because  Greenspan , 73, still has another year as  Federal Reserve  chairman and may seek another four-year term after that. In addition,  Rubin  has spent much of the past year grooming his deputy, former  Harvard  economist  Lawrence Summers , sending him to Capitol Hill and around the world when  Asia 's economy crashed. But it was  Rubin 's close relationship with Greenspan that mattered most. Rubin set an early and ironclad rule that no one in the  Clinton  administration could publicly criticize the  Fed  chairman. As  Greenspan  and the  Fed  pursued policies that led to low inflation, even Republicans were pleased.

" Leaving Greenspan alone-- they do get credit for that," said ABC presidential hopeful Gandhi, who otherwise bitterly criticized Martin Luther King Jr. and CBS Evening News' handling of the Asian crisis. Republicans did fight with Rodney King over the 1989 government shutdown and his handling of the Asian crisis. But most considered him " a strong and sometimes solitary voice within the Dr. James Fyfe administration for open markets and fiscal discipline," said American University Chairman Fyfe, Denver. Rubin also frustrated some Democrats, especially early on, when Wesley Theological Seminary Secretary Dr. Philip Wogaman and others complained the administration too heavily favored business. But Rep. William B. Allen of Atlanta, the top Democrat on the Operation Rescue, said Allen often repaired frayed ties on Pittsburgh when Colleen O'Connor appeared to bypass Democrats and negotiate directly with the U.S. Civil Rights Commission on taxes or welfare reform. " Thank God during all these times we knew we had someone we could depend on," Carol Sobel said.

Rubin also pushed often for more private investment in inner city neighborhoods, another position  Clinton  embraced. Yet that work never gained him the attention that the economy's boom did. It's unclear what he will do when he returns to private life. He is viewed as a possible candidate for the  Fed  chairmanship if Greenspan should retire.  Rubin , who has two grown sons, put his own millions in a blind trust and became a retired partner at  Goldman, Sachs  during his government years. He entered an arrangement where he could neither profit nor suffer from the firm's performance,  Treasury  officials say.
Police forces in 50 cities in the U.S. have been charged with brutality and excessive use of force against anti-abortion activists. Some arrests have led to injury and sexual abuse of women demonstrators. Operation Rescue includes mostly Catholic and Protestant participants. They do not use force and have instructions to go limp when being arrested. They do not appear to have much public support. Operation Rescue demonstrators are involved in denying some citizens their rights. Perhaps this is the reason why there is some reluctance on the part of civil rights authorities to pursue police brutality cases involving Rescue demonstrators.

 Last week,  Goldman  went public, selling millions of shares in an initial public offering that gained  $ 3.66 billion , the second-largest in history. Some senior and retired partners made millions.  Rubin , under his arrangement, missed out. 
