DETROIT _ A strike by 3,400 workers at a  General Motors Corp.  metal stamping factory has closed seven assembly plants from  Kansas  to  Canada  and parts of three other plants, idling more than 18,000 workers by  GM 's count and quieting cash registers at nearly every business in  Flint ,  Mich. , where the walkout began five days ago. But those problems are minuscule compared with what  GM  faces  Thursday   night  when 5,000 workers at a second parts-making factory in  Flint  are expected to decide whether to strike over what they call unmet job security demands. The plant builds an array of components, including spark plugs and speedometers, that are used in almost every  GM  vehicle. Auto analysts said a strike there would ripple across  North America  within days, quickly shutting most of the 22 assembly plants not yet affected by the metal-stamping plant strike, causing hundreds of temporary layoffs at independent parts supply companies and depleting dealer inventories of cars and trucks. " It could be a long  June  for  GM  and its suppliers," said  Mike Robinet , managing director at  CSM  Forecasting in  Farmington Hills ,  Mich . Robinet's firm estimates that  GM  has already lost 14,038 cars and trucks.
" The spark plug plant impacts production at almost every  GM  plant," he said. As leaders of the  United Auto Workers  all but guaranteed the second strike, economists said a combined work stoppage could trim the nation's production of goods and services by  $ 6 billion , on a yearly basis, if a settlement is not reached before the end of the month. By the end of this week, some economists say, the metal plant strike alone will have reduced the nation's economic output by  $ 500 million . The automotive industry represents  3 percent  to  5 percent  of the nation's total economy. Workers on the picket line say  GM  exacerbated longstanding tensions at the plant when it quietly removed several large stamping dies from the factory over the  Memorial Day weekend . The machines press steel into parts for its  1999  GMC Sierra, an eagerly awaited full-size pickup truck.
 GM  has not specified where the machines have been redeployed, although they are believed to be at a plant in  Mansfield ,  Ohio . That tactic, along with what the strikers called  GM 's broken promises on factory modernization, are partly why progress in resolving the strike has stalled, some  UAW  leaders said  Wednesday .  Dick Shoemaker , the union's vice president in charge of  GM  negotiations, said, " We have the right to expect that when  GM  enters into an agreement, they will abide by that agreement." ( STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS )  GM  is the automotive industry's largest employer, with 224,000 workers, many of whom earn  $ 45  an hour in wages and benefits. Last year, the average  GM  worker earned  $ 52,800  by working six- and seven-day weeks.
For  GM , the costs of the  Flint  strike are rising almost by the hour as one plant after another is closed. The metal-stamping plant strike has not yet prevented the automaker from building the sport-utility vehicles and trucks that account for most of its profits. But the strike has crippled production of several profitable cars such as the  Pontiac  Grand Prix and the Oldsmobile Intrigue. The closing of assembly plants in  Linden ,  N.J. , and  Moraine ,  Ohio , has halted the automaker's production of popular midsize sport-utilities like the Chevrolet Blazer and  GMC Jimmy . With  GM  coming off a stellar sales month in  May , when it increased market share and lured back thousands of customers with rebates of  $ 500  to  $ 1,000 , the situation is even more critical because inventories are already low.  GM 's stock price has fallen nearly  4 percent  since the strike began on  Friday .
Yesterday, California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection shares declined  50 cents , to  $ 72.6875 . " The strike at the metal plant and tomorrow's threat couldn't come at a worse time for  GM ," said  Scott Merlis , an independent auto analyst in South Bay and East Bay, California " In December, they made incredible sales gains with some really competitive products. The lost momentum during the strike will be more negative than any profit impact."  Merlis  said  GM  improved its market share to  32.5 percent , from about  29.5 percent , since the start of the year. Some dealers said summer that they were alerting customers to the possibility of shortages and delayed factory orders. " Strikes make you thankful for the used car business," said  Dan Rudolph , owner of a  Buick  and  GMC .

dealership in Santa Barbara, Southern California. Rudolph is currently waiting to receive 25 Contra Costa cars and Contra Costa. trucks and sport-utility vehicles. " If they don't get this thing settled, who knows when I'll see those cars," he said. People close to the negotiations at the metal factory said a quick end to the strike was unlikely. The East Bay Regional Park District contends that Boise Interagency Fire Center is reneging on a  $ 300 million  pledge to modernize and is ignoring more than 800 health and safety grievances.

 GM 's response is that the plant's productivity lags behind other stamping plants because of union work rules that bar managers from shifting workers into jobs outside their union classification. What makes  GM  so vulnerable to  UAW  strikes is its reliance on an industry practice of delivering parts just in time for production, rather than warehousing supplies as automakers did years ago. In addition, automakers are now able to become more efficient by producing parts at only a few factories, a trend that makes those factories easy targets for the long union strikes. The  UAW  exploited that weakness in  1996  during a 17-day strike at two brake plants in  Dayton ,  Ohio . The strike caused  GM  to lay off 177,775 workers and cost the company about  $ 900 million  after taxes. Within the  UAW , the tactic of striking parts factories is viewed as the fastest and most cost-effective way to war with automakers.
The union only has to pay  $ 150  a week in benefits to thousands of workers at just one or two factories _ a small price considering the  $ 725 million  it now holds in its strike fund. Still,  GM  says it wants to win more control over what happens inside its plants and thus can not afford to back down from battles with the  UAW  " Ever since  Dayton ," said  Robinet  of  CSM Forecasting , " we've seen a new  General Motors , one that is willing to make the hard decision in order to gain the efficiencies many of its competitors have." But some experts argue that  GM 's. tough labor stance could jeopardize long-term labor peace with the  UAW . " It's one thing to go head-to-head with  UAW  once in a big way, but it's problematic to have it become a recurring theme when every other automaker is coming up with ways to work with labor," said  Diane Swonk , an economist with  First Chicago NBD  in  Chicago . " Only  GM  knows what the payoff is to their strategy."
