When  Samantha Reeves , a well-regarded amateur finding her way through her freshman season on the women's professional tennis circuit, wanted to hustle herself back into shape after sustaining an ankle injury late in  1997 , she said she decided to experiment with a newfangled " all-natural" dietary supplement, apparently on the recommendation of a friend. The product promised to help her burn fat and build muscle, and it was readily available over the counter at health-food stores. It sounded like the answer to her prayers : a training and diet aid that would help her get fit fast and get back to the business of cracking the top 100 in women's tennis. Instead,  Reeves ' decision to use the product backfired badly. Required to submit a urine sample at an event last  December  as part of tennis' effort to detect improper drug use,  Reeves  failed the test. The dietary product, it turned out, had contained Nor-Andro 19, a variation on the classic steroid nandrolone and one of the substances banned by the sport. And so  Reeves , despite her argument that she had no intention of taking anything aimed at improperly aiding her performance, became the first female tennis player ever to have tested positive for steroids.
" I have never knowingly done anything that would be harmful to my tennis career,"  Reeves  said in a statement that her family released after her test result was made public this  summer . The  International Tennis Federation , which governs the sport, ultimately did not suspend or otherwise discipline  Reeves , who was ranked No. 1 in the  U.S.  Girls 18's in  1996 , is currently ranked 106th in the world, and is undecided about whether to accept a college scholarship or turn pro. Citing her age _ she turned 19 earlier this year _ and inexperience, and apparently accepting her claim that she was unaware of the presence of steroids in the product, the  ITF  instead called the long and embarrassing ordeal of testing, investigation and public disclosure " a sanction in itself."  ITF  spokesman  Alun James  said the investigation " proved  Reeves  guilty of taking the banned substance and, although the decision against any further punishment is arguably lenient, if caught again, she could face a life ban as a second offender." Reeves' case highlights a little discussed but troubling question for tennis : With the easy availability of illicit steroids, and the simultaneous explosion of fitness and muscle-building products that are sold legally but often with little warning about what they contain, how many players are trying to gain an inappropriate edge ? Only one other player,  Ignacio Truyol  of  Spain , has ever been formally detected of having used steroids. Can tennis fairly and effectively police such use and the cheating _ either brazen or accidental _ that results ?
" Tennis is a sport I would not have thought would be steroid-involved, but there's tons of steroids out there these days, and they're not all coming from the black market," said  Dr. Alan Jones , a pharmaceutics professor at the  University of Mississippi  who acts as the toxicology consultant for the company that administers drug testing for the men's ATP and women's WTA tours and for the  ITF . Jones said numerous high-tech or nouveau steroids are being marketed as simple food supplements and training aids and sold everywhere from the Internet to health-food stores. " It's conceivable that a player could be oblivious to the fact that they're using something that contains an anabolic substance,"  Jones  said. " They think : It's natural, it's pure, it's good for me. And that is an absolute fallacy." Considering the plethora of legal products, such as creatine, available to athletes looking to boost their endurance, maximize their workouts and stave off flab, athletes subject to drug testing evidently can not be too careful about what they ingest. Whether in the guise of vitamins, hormone supplements or food additives, there is apparently a synthetically engineered anabolic look-alike out there for everyone, whether the athletes are looking to raise a barbell or their tennis ranking.
While less invasive than the EPO-type injectables that recently tarnished cycling's Tour de  France , or the substances currently muddying the reputation of Irish swimmer  Michelle Smith  de Bruin, anabolics such as norandrolone, which is not regulated by the  Food and Drug Administration , are far from benign. And once these legal additives break down in the system, a steroid by any other name tends to turn into a steroid. The Nor-Andro 19 in the supplement  Reeves  chose is a product that, according to  Jones , " is the new kid on the block, the popular one right now. It's not a testosterone type of steroid, and the labs originally weren't testing for it. It's offered as a food supplement and marketed as a performance and training enhancer that increases muscle strength, mass and endurance." Jones did say he was unaware of the product's ever having been marketed as a weight-loss product. Tennis has stepped up its testing and the detection efforts of its anti-doping program, which is modeled on the one used by the  International Olympic Committee .
The  ITF , in conjunction with the  WTA  and  ATP  tours, conducts roughly 1,000 tests each year, all of them random and  10 percent  of them in locations other than the site of tournaments. The cost to the three tennis organizations is approximately  $ 500,000  per year, and so far, the only other player found guilty of using steroids is the 23-year-old  Truyol , who said he took them on the advice of his physician when recovering from an injury. " No sport is immune anymore," said  Dr. Donna Smith  of  Substance Abuse Management , the company that administers tennis' anti-doping program. " Wherever you have issues of injury recovery and athletes intent on maximizing their training, you're going to see this stuff. " Our window of detection is small, because most of these products clear the system within five days, and although we'd like to do more off-site testing, it's prohibitively expensive. You always feel like you're one step behind." nn According to the  Reeves  family,  Samantha 's use of the steroid was purely accidental.
The only people more surprised than the player herself were her parents,  Jack  and  Jill Reeves . Their teen-age daughter was fixated on losing weight,  Jack Reeves  said, and, unbeknownst to him and his wife, bought the supplement. When the family was notified, by fax, of the positive test and was asked to provide a record of every medication  Samantha  had ingested, steroids were not initially revealed as the culprit behind the positive reading,  Jack Reeves  said. Then came a phone call that informed them of the source of the positive result : The illegal nandrolone metabolites in her system were traced to Nor-Andro 19. Just after the conclusion of  Wimbledon   last month , the  ITF  announced that  Reeves  had tested positive for anabolic steroids. " We thought it was good news that they'd figured out how the stuff got into her system; we thought that was the end of it," said  Jack Reeves , who would not permit his daughter to be interviewed. " Then we were told the review board had decided to pursue the case and test a second sample.
It's a kind of guilty-until-proven-innocent process where you're dealing with a lot of nameless, faceless parties. They do hold a player responsible for whatever is in their system, and they're not particularly interested in how it got there. You'd have to be a molecular biologist to know this would occur. " It's been a very troublesome, frustrating experience; tennis is such a mental game, and this has put a lot of extra pressure on her," he said. " These days, Joan won't drink a glass of water without having it analyzed." ( STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS ) The Carmen de Bolivar had allowed their daughter to leave high school in Colombia for  Dennis Van Der Meer's Tennis Academy  in  Hilton Head , Bogata, after she was selected for the  U.S. Tennis Association National Junior Team  in 1988 and ' 96 .

Then, her parents let her take a year off between high school graduation in Monday and college to test the waters on the circuit while retaining her college eligibility. They had expected to spend the today monitoring their daughter's progress on the WTA Tour; instead, they spent it helping her weather the six-month investigation by the Gross's anti-doping panel. In addition to being the first female tennis player ever to fail a drug test of any sort, Joan is also the first player to fail a test but escape the mandatory one-year suspension for players found guilty of using a Class One banned substance. On the men's side, Jim Gross was suspended for a year in Monday, and Victor Leon Mendoza and Joan were previously fined and suspended after testing positive for cocaine. If only two players have tested positive after thousands of tests, does it mean that tennis can rest assured it has no steroid problem ? Some players say no. Joan, who trained his way to the No. 1 ranking and four Grand Slam singles championships without steroid shortcuts, said : " If being big and strong were the main criteria for being a good player, then weight lifters would be the best. But I can see where this stuff might help out some of the more slight guys, because it can make you train like an animal.

" No one worked harder on their training than I did, and it disgusts me to think I may have lost matches to guys who've been juicing and cycling it out of their systems in time for competition," he said."  Boris Becker  once said that if he knew for sure everybody else was using steroids, then he would too; well, not me. I don't want kidney problems at 45." Courier recalled a poll of Olympians that asked whether the athletes would take a drug that guaranteed them a medal even if it also guaranteed terminal health trouble by mid-life : " I guess it's the James Dean thing, live fast, die young, leave a beautiful corpse _ and a gold medal."  Debbie Graham , a WTA Tour veteran, said : " I think there's a lot of it going on because of the pressures in women's sports, and not just to win. There's a lot of pressure for a woman to look fit in front of a crowd." As far as  Samantha Reeves  is concerned, she continued to play sporadically this year and  Tuesday  received a wild-card berth for the  U.S.   Open later this month .
 " I'm anxious to put the entire experience behind me," she said in a statement she gave to the  U.S. Tennis Association . Truyol, whose suspension ended in  January , has not returned to the ATP Tour and no longer holds a ranking. 
