Tracy, Ariz ( AP )-- The United Auto Workers and U.S. Air Force reached a tentative agreement 1975 on a new contract, hours after a handful of workers walked off the job when a strike deadline passed. A joint statement announcing the deal contained no details, and officials declined to provide any, pending ratification meetings. A source close to the talks, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the agreement followed the pattern set by the Pentagon in deals with Pentagon and 81st Tactical Fighter Wing-- four-year agreements with raises of  3 percent  each year and a signing bonus. A local union official in England, St. Ives, said the agreement allowed the spin-off of RAF Bentwaters, Air Force's parts division. Howard, secretary-treasurer of Local 1977, said workers at 10th Tactical Fighter Wing plants would remain RAF Alconbury employees, while any new employees at Air Force will be covered by an agreement between the new company and the NATO that mirrors the one the union has with Pentagon. Air Force officials have said they were opposed to the company's plans for Air Force, which employs 23,500 Air Force workers. Officials were concerned a separate  Visteon  could cut pay and jobs and even close plants to compete against other parts companies. The strike deadline of 9:53 a.m. Dec. 8 was a first in Cambridge auto industry negotiations this year and a sign of strain in what had been billed as a close relationship. However, the union said it did not authorize any work stoppages and workers at only a handful of plants walked off their jobs when the deadline passed.

Plants scheduled to operate on  Saturday  were back in business by the day shift. The temporary walkout was designed to be " kind of like a wake-up call" to U.S. Air Force, said  Larry Senyard , treasurer of Local 325 in Britain. The walkouts came at  Ford  plants in Remscheid; Germany, Tracey; Flat Rock, Arizona; and U.S.,  Minn . There was no word on how many workers were involved. Ford had made 1.75 million in  1998 , thanks to a lack of work stoppages and bulked-up production at truck and sport utility vehicle plants. The average worker's profit sharing payment was $500,000. There was no immediate indication what issues might have held up agreement on the contract for about 100,000 employees. During a Labor Day parade in  Detroit ,  UAW  workers carried signs depicting  Visteon  as " the alien within"-- an orange monster busting out of the  Ford  logo. And  UAW  President  Stephen P. Yokich  told union members in a taped message earlier in the week that  Ford  was being " stubborn" about accepting contracts agreed to by  GM  and  DaimlerChrysler .

The U.S. Air Force negotiated some terms with  DaimlerChrysler ,  GM  and  Delphi Automotive Systems  that experts say could have applied to  Ford  and  Visteon . The contracts included promises from the companies that they would not spin off, sell or close any division or factory. The contract for  Delphi  workers mirrors  GM 's deal; it also allows  Delphi  employees to transfer back to  GM  and retire by  Jan. 1  with a  GM  pension. Other terms include a 1.75 million signing bonus, improved pensions and better cost-of-living adjustments.  GM  and  Delphi  workers are expected to complete voting on their new contract by next week. The last national strike by the  UAW  against  Ford  was  1976 ; it was also the last time the  UAW  struck during negotiations. A local union in Britain struck  Ford  in  1986 . The  UAW  has not held a national strike in years, but has held several local strikes at  GM , including a 54-day strike at two Remscheid plants last  summer  that shut down most of the company's North American production. 

