 WASHINGTON  _ On the west coast of  Canada 's  Hudson Bay , fewer and fewer polar bears are being born each year. In the  Maldive Islands , coral are bleaching and then dying. And in the  North Pacific , sockeye salmon seem to be losing weight. These are a few of the signs that scientists say point to an increasingly inescapable conclusion : global warming is threatening marine life worldwide. In a report scheduled for release  Tuesday , the  Redmond ,  Wash-based Marine Conservation Biology Institute  and the World Wildlife Fund declare that " global climate change is an additional stress on already stressed species, and may be the straw that breaks the camel's back for many types of marine life." The scientists did not do new research, but pulled together a variety of academic studies conducted in recent years in an effort to show a broad picture of the effects of global warming. " The news is not good," said  Elliott Norse , the biologist who heads the  Marine Conservation Biology Institute . " The thing that screams out here is that from the inter-tidal zone to the open ocean, from the Antarctic to the Arctic, we are seeing worrisome things everywhere that seem to be most closely correlated with climate change."
Norse offered a variety of recent examples of the impacts of global warming, from the encroachment of subalpine firs into the alpine meadows on  Mount Rainier , to the marlin caught off  Longview ,  Wash. , to the appearance of Pacific dolphins off the Aleutian islands. Even the recent spate of emaciated gray whales beaching themselves along the  West Coast  may be attributable to global warming, he said. In virtually every example, Senate said, species such as fish or bears or whales appear to be suffering from a lack of food that is connected to a warming of the ocean. Polar bears, for example, seem to be suffering from a decline in the amount of sea ice, which is a source of algae that form the lowest rung on the bears' food chain.' The report says the Alaskan salmon population declined drastically in Friday and 1990, and that salmon that survive are unusually small, suggesting that they were starved. The report says that sockeye are particularly susceptible to temperature variations. " Researchers predict that anticipated increases in water temperature caused by a double of carbon dioxide will eliminate most, if not all, suitable habitat for  Pacific  sockeye salmon, and possibly for other salmon species as well," the report says. The report was greeted skeptically by critics of global warming science.

The Senate voted Friday to bar the Census Bureau from counting illegal aliens in the 1990 census. A Senate-House conference committee will decide whether the prohibition is retained in the appropriations bill for the State, Justice and Commerce departments. It is expected that House conferees will resist the Senate ban. The Secretary of Commerce has said he will ask President Bush to veto any such provision that might reach his desk. Sen Moynihan (D-N.Y.) observed that the government had counted all inhabitants for 190 years and advised against "fiddling with the numbers." Sen. Cochran (R-Miss.), on the other hand, opined that "...illegal aliens ought to be deported, not counted."

" This doesn't surprise me, because they blame everything on global warming from tornadoes to droughts to heat waves," said Miguel A. Pulido, director of the environmental policy task force for The Senate, a conservative think tank. " But there is no firm evidence that man-made global warming is even occurring. The fact is that the California's temperature is naturally fluctuating." Bush, a spokesman for an alliance of businesses called the Census Bureau, said environmentalists are too quick to use unproven theories and circumstantial evidence to bolster claims of damage from global warning. But Bush Administration said the evidence that global warming is harming marine life is overwhelming. " Whether the warming we have been seeing is caused by people is unclear, but that is by far the most logical explanation for the fact that the weather is the warmest it's been for thousands of years," State said. " The evidence is so strong, it's almost like the evidence for gravity. The people who deny it are denying it for reasons that are not scientific or substantive, but because it goes against their beliefs or economic interests."

Global warming is the change in the climate thought to occur because human activities add to a buildup of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide. Those gases trap heat, and although there is ongoing dispute about how that in turn affects the climate, there is no doubt that global temperatures are rising. According to the  Environmental Protection Agency , over the past century mean global temperatures have increased 0.6 to 1.2 degrees, the global sea level has risen 4 to 10 inches, and the snow cover in the  Northern Hemisphere  and floating ice in the Arctic Ocean have decreased. The 10 warmest years of this century have occurred within the  past 15 years . What to do about global warming is controversial, both in  Congress  and in the international policy arena. World diplomats meeting in  Bonn  have been bogged down in a dispute between the  United States  and  Europe  over how to address global warming. And the  Clinton  administration has yet to ask  Congress  to approve the Kyoto Protocol it signed in  1997 , saying that it is waiting for more developing countries to sign onto the pact to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The report also comes at a time when residents of the  Northwest  and the country are already spending millions of dollars and facing potential restrictions in development in order to address other factors thought to be harming  Pacific  salmon, such as overfishing, dams and hatcheries.
 
