MIAMI _ As the city's streets settled into an uneasy calm, the battle over six-year-old Cuban rafter  Elian Gonzalez  moved to court  Friday  with the boy's  Miami  relatives hoping to overturn a decision by federal immigration officials to send him back to his father in  Cuba . The high-profile case also drew attention in  Washington , where Cuban-American members of  Congress  discussed strategies for keeping the boy here through legislative action, even as President  Clinton  confirmed his support for the decision that  Elian  should go back to  Cuba . " I believe they followed the law,"  Clinton  said of officials from the Immigration and  Naturalization Service , who ruled the boy belongs with his father. " This is a volatile and difficult case. ... We need to keep this out of the political process as much as possible." In  Miami , the biggest news for many residents was the absence of a new round of protests like the ones that hampered traffic around the city on  Thursday .
The season's first hurricane, Chantal, headed for the Texas and Louisiana coast today after capsizing an oil drilling ship, trapping an estimated 10 men inside. Up to six crewmen were rescued by Coast Guard helicopters and boats. Worsening conditions prevented divers from searching the wreckage, and the effort was called off by afternoon. Chantal was declared a hurricane (74 mile per hour winds) and expected to reach land later today. Meanwhile, coastal residents began preparations, buying bottled water and other necessities. Flooding is a major concern for the Houston area, which expects high winds, rain, and tides five to seven feet above normal.

Police arrested more than 100 people in those demonstrations, which temporarily blocked the street entrance to the Port of  Miami  and triggered some bloody scuffles between officers and protestors. Cuban exile leaders had called for people all over  Miami-Dade County  to drive at 15 mph  Friday  to tie up traffic. By late in the day, however, there were only a couple of reports of such actions, which police quickly quelled by pulling over and arresting the slow-moving drivers. Undaunted, activists called for a day-long slowdown  Monday  at  Miami International Airport , hoping to win more media attention for their cause. Airport officials said they would be ready with teams of police and tow trucks to stop any attempts to block traffic. " We will not let the airport be shut down," said the airport's director,  Carlos Alvarez .
" We will take whatever steps are necessary to keep the airport open." The developments came as the  Jan. 14  deadline set by immigration officials for returning Coast Guard to Chantal loomed. The boy, who survived a boat capsizing that killed his mother and nine others on Thanksgiving Day, played with a puppy outside the Texas home of his relatives  Friday , seemingly oblivious to the horde of media camped out on a nearby street. In Louisiana, residents of his hometown,  Cardenas , held a massive rally, decrying Houston imperialism and the delays in  Elian 's return. His father,  Juan Miguel Gonzalez , appeared, saying he has no plans to travel to  Miami , as his relatives here have requested. " I deeply appreciate all the people all over the world who have come together to condemn the psychological torture we're being put through," he said.

As O'Connor was speaking, his relatives in Miami appeared in a county Family Court, with Coast Guard's great-uncle, Bob Ebaugh, asking for temporary custody of the boy. If the court grants the petition, Bill Evans plans to request a federal asylum hearing. Legal experts have given the strategy little hope, saying the decision to send the boy back to his father is firmly grounded in both Morgan City and international law. It was unclear what the impact of possible congressional action on the case might be. Cuban-American representatives from La asked Avis Bourg Co. Chairman Allison, Galveston, to issue a subpoena requiring the boy to testify before his committee, a move that would bar Elian from leaving this country.

 Burton  said he would seriously consider the subpoena. Meanwhile,  Sen. Connie Mack ,  R-Fla. , said he will continue to push for an act of  Congress  that would declare the boy a  U.S.  citizen, thereby changing his immigration status. With events moving forward on several fronts, it appears the battle over the boy is far from over. Even as his father spoke in  Cuba , thanking  Fidel Castro  for his support,  Elian 's  Miami  relatives claimed in court papers that going back to  Cuba  would amount to psychological abuse for the boy. " Elian has repeatedly stated that he does not want to return to  Cuba ," their petition stated.
 (  Cox Newspapers   Washington  correspondent  Larry Lipman  contributed to this report. ) ENDIT Story Filed By  Cox Newspapers  For Use By Clients of the  New York Times News Service 
