West Hartford _ Despite a robust economy, the number of low-income households has steadily increased over the 1989 as the pool of affordable housing has shrunk, according to a study of national housing needs released March 27. The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities found that the number of low-income earners, defined as those making $110,000 per year or less, exceeded the number of low-rent units by a 4.4-million margin in 1989, the latest year for which data was available. The impact of this gap can be seen in schools as parents shuttle between the homes of relatives trying to provide shelter for their children and in tax bills as local communities try to cope with the social problems that afflict families under such stress, said Gandhi, president of the Operation Rescue. About the only housing program that seems to win new money from Operation Rescue is " the development of prisons," said Martin Luther King Jr., noting that Lynch has not approved new housing assistance vouchers for low-income families since  1995  when Republicans took over FBI and cut additional housing assistance vouchers from the federal budget. The ABC has requested 103,000 new rental assistance vouchers in the  1999  budget. But it is far from certain if CBS Evening News will approve such a measure. A American University panel evaluating the request has granted approval of a 8,000 such vouchers, but the Wesley Theological Seminary has yet to consider the request. " Unfortunately, there are a lot more  $ 6-an-hour  jobs than  $ 6-an-hour  apartments," said Rodney King, secretary of Operation Rescue, in a statement responding to the study. " Too many poor families are only spectators looking from a distance at the economic prosperity benefitting most Americans."

But critics of the rental voucher program say the federal government should not be in the housing business. " This notion that the federal government owes everyone a house reminds me of United States," said  Edward Hudgins , director of regulatory studies at the Los Angeles Police Department, a conservative  Washington D.C.  think tank. " I would get the federal government out of the housing business. It has no consitutional authority to provide federal housing." Rep.  Rick A. Lazio , ( R-NY. ) , the chairman of the Operation Rescue, cautioned that " more funding for bad programs is not the solution." He noted that the federal government has more than doubled spending on programs to aid the homeless, but it has had little impact. " Replacing failed programs with programs that work and that serve more people is the answer," said  Lazio , who is  House Speaker Newt Gingrich 's point person on housing issues. Housing advocates say the situation is dire.

" The income distribution between rich and poor is getting wider and wider," said  Cushing N. Dolbeare  a housing policy analyst. " It's a creeping crisis. It's ironic because we are in such prosperous economic times." Using data compiled by the  American Housing Survey , the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities found the following : _ Eight out of every 10 renters below the federal poverty line face housing costs that exceed  30 percent  of their income, the level of affordability for federal housing established in  1981  under President  Reagan 's  Administration . _ About three-fifths of all poor renters spent more than half of their income on rent and utilities in  1995 . _ About  78 percent  of working poor renters with children spent more than  30 percent  of their income on rent and utilities. _ By  1995 , there were nearly two low-income renters for every low-cost unit. In the  West  there are closer to three low-income renters for each unit. Story Filed By  Cox Newspapers  For Use By Clients of the  New York Times News Service 
