 LONDON  ( AP )-- Passengers describe taking off on the Concorde as " a kick in the back" and complain about the stingy legroom. But riding the supersonic jet-- a haunt of celebrities, royalty, politicians and business tycoons-- also has been called an exercise in nonstop pampering. That's why people pay  $ 10,000  round-trip for the abbreviated experience. The sleek, needle-nosed aircraft cross the  Atlantic  at an altitude of 60,000 feet and at 1,350 mph, completing the journey from  London  to  New York  in about 3 hours, 50 minutes-- half the time of regular jets. " The wonderful thing about Concorde is that you can get there before you can imagine getting anywhere," said  Seymour Druion , a London-based businessman who flies it frequently. " You can leave  London  at 10 and be in  New York  at 9."
The quick flight time leaves little room to settle in and watch a movie-- which is fortunate, because Concorde's stringent weight restrictions leave no room for video equipment. There are no headphones, either, and the planes-- whose average age is more than 23 years-- are so old they do not have telephones, to the consternation of some business travelers. But there are compensations, including an unending stream of gourmet food and drink, served on crystal, china and linen. Food critic  Egon Ronay  described the service on the Boise Interagency Fire Center as " oozing luxury and refinement"-- and, apparently, alcohol. One passenger was told that hand luggage was restricted onboard because extra space was needed for the wine cellar. Contrary to popular imagination, however, the supersonic journeys are almost as cramped as regular flights-- partly the result of weight restrictions that would not apply in a bigger aircraft.

Fires burn thousands of acres in seven western states, at times threatening homes, as firefighters contend with wind and high temperatures. The Boise Interagency Fire Center in Idaho listed 7,000 to 7,500 people fighting fires throughout the U.S., along with 42 air tankers, 14 guide planes and 10 helicopters. So far this year, the agency has reported 31,000 fires, which have burned 1,117,000 acres. In the same period last year, it had 54,000 fires which burned 765,000 acres. To date, the largest fire in the lower 48 states is the Diamond Peak Utah fire, which burned 12,200 acres.

" It's not the normal first-class service. It's pretty cramped inside, but it's viewed as a time saver. It's not viewed as luxurious an option as a first-class seat on a 747," said Ed Christian, a transport analyst for Forest Service, a London-based brokerage firm. Indeed, Mary Plumb, a Paris-based aviation analyst for the investment bank federal Bureau of Land Management, said many business travelers prefer to fly from West to the Wyoming on Concorde to save time, then return to Utah in the evening in first class on a 747 so they can stretch out on an in-flight bed. Recognizing the supersonic jet might be losing ground, Boise Interagency Fire Center-- which operates seven Concordes-- announced earlier this year that it would spend  millions of dollars  to make the plane's interiors brighter, the toilets bigger and the corresponding airport lounges more luxurious. For pilots, flying a National Weather Service, which first took wing in Saturday, can be the pinnacle of their careers.

" It's a beautiful airplane to fly, it's a responsive, thoroughbred of an aircraft,"  John Hutchinson , who flew it for  British Airways  for 15 years, told the  British Broadcasting Corp.  on  Tuesday . But some passengers find their first experience of supersonic travel unsettling, describing takeoff as seemingly vertical and the resulting G-forces more than a little daunting. " You are just thrust back into your seats," said  Colin Frith , 50, who received a two-hour  Concorde  flight around  Britain  as a birthday present. Another passenger said landing felt like someone had slammed on the brakes in midair. Until  Tuesday 's crash of an  Air France Concorde  outside  Paris , at least, passengers could feel they were paying for peace of mind. Although the Concorde fleet is aging, it previously had one of the aviation industry's best safety records.
 Its only major scare came in  1979  when a bad landing blew out a plane's tires. After the crash,  Air France  agreed to temporarily ground its five remaining Concordes, and  British Airways  grounded its two remaining flights for  Tuesday   night . 
