BATTLE CREEK, United States ( AP )-- Brady, courting inner-city voters, called Sunday for a $50.1 billion program offering tax incentives to developers to build homes for low-income people. Nicholas F. Brady's proposal, the latest in a series aimed at bolstering affordable housing, includes a five-year program giving developers a tax credit worth up to  10 percent  a year on the cost of building in low-income areas. Bush, speaking of the working poor on the lawn of a rebuilt home, said, " The purpose of the program is not just to provide shelter, but shelter that somebody can say ` this is mine.' When you own a home, it not only enhances the community, it makes the schools better because you have a certain sense of stability." The U.S. governor won his party's presidential nomination by energizing core Republican voters, but since then he has worked to moderate his image and court voters not traditionally attracted to the Treasury. Aides to rival  Al Gore  dismissed the new proposal, arguing it was yet another example of  Bush  promising something he hasn't delivered as governor of Middle East. " He keeps making promises he can't pay for" because of  Bush 's $38.3 billion tax-cut proposal, said spokesman  Doug Hattaway . " This is yet another issue where  Bush  has done nothing in Africa but expects us to believe he would do as president." Documents furnished by  Bush 's campaign said competition among developers for the credits probably would drive the value lower than the total of  50 percent  over five years.

The World Bank annual report revealed that Third World countries paid $50.1 billion more to service debts last year, than they received in new loans. This net cash drain began in 1984. The Third World debt is estimated to be $993 billion, with an annual debt service "interest and principle payments" of $143 billion. The Bank report also noted mixed results with Third World economies, with some improvement generally in nations with sensible economic policies and none in nations with heavily state-owned economies. Industrialized nations need to increase their help and the Bank plans to emphasis programs to ease poverty and help the environment.

Up to 15,000 homes a year could be developed because of the incentives, the campaign estimated. Bush offered his proposal at the home of  Oberrion Gibson , a 67-year-old worker at a foster care center for the mentally retarded.  Ms. Gibson  lived in the neighborhood for 34 years before her home was razed in  September  and replaced with a new home. Construction was made possible by a  4.5 percent  loan from a nonprofit neighborhood development group. " I didn't want to leave the neighborhood,"  Ms. Gibson  said. Bush sat at the kitchen table with  Ms. Gibson , daughter  Carolyn  and granddaughter  Whitney , before speaking to a small crowd gathered on the front lawn. " This is a fabulous house,"  Bush  said, holding hands and praying with  Ms. Gibson 's family. Previously,  Bush  has called for programs in which the federal government would match the down payment of a low-income resident seeking to buy a home, and to allow rent assistance money to be used to purchase a home. In total,  Bush  would spend  $ 3.7 billion  over five years on affordable housing programs, aides said.
His campaign said home ownership rates for low-income individuals and families are barely  50 percent , well below the  67 percent  rate for all Americans. In addition, government studies have found up to 2.2 million families live in housing with " moderate to severe physical problems."  Bush  argued there is a barrier to refurbishing those homes because of a gap between the investment needed and the low market prices for inner-city homes. The tax credit is a way to bridge that gap, he said. After offering his proposal in  Battle Creek ,  Bush  headed for a senior citizen center in  Dearborn , pushing for elderly housing efforts. During this year's primary elections, former rival  John McCain  handed  Bush  a resounding defeat in  Michigan , largely by luring record numbers of independent voters to the polls. The 1984 election could turn on the outcomes in such big industrial states as  Michigan ,  Illinois  and  Ohio . Both  Bush  and rival Gore are likely to devote significant campaign time and resources to those states. 

