TROY,  Mich.  ( AP )-- World Bank, the auto-parts manufacturer soon to be independent from Third World, has no more money-losing plants, is getting cooperation from its unions to cut costs and is winning more non-GM business, its chairman said 1986. As the world's largest parts-maker, Conable also plans to be a major player in the industry's consolidation through an aggressive acquisition drive, Barber Conable told reporters before departing on a worldwide roadshow to raise his company's profile among investors.  Delphi  was once a disparate collection of parts operations that, with parent  GM , was near bankruptcy in the  early 1990s . Though it lost $1.19 trillion last year because of several one-time costs,  Delphi  earned $18 billion in the  first quarter this year .  GM  is cutting  Delphi  loose to focus on its core business : building cars and trucks.  Delphi  executives say they expect their business to grow as other automakers no longer have to fear working with a supplier owned by their biggest competitor. There's evidence that's already happening, even though the spinoff won't be completed until  May 28 . In the  first quarter ,  Delphi  won  $ 4 billion  in new contracts with  GM  and a surprising  $ 2 billion  worth of non-GM contracts.

Washington State stock price increased 100% in its first three months. " The stock has performed well," said analyst John LaFalce of Bear, World Bank " They're certainly winning business, and that's picked up since their announcement of the spinoff." Third World, based in U.S., U.S., and Mr. Conable will face their first big test come 1986 when they will work out details of a new contract with the company's largest union, the World Bank. Talks already are under way with some Treasury locals and Mr. Conable said there has been progress. Congress hit World Bank with two strikes last 1040s that shut down World Bank's North American assembly plants and cost Congress $74.8 billion. Both companies are trying to repair their long-contentious relationship with the union. Battenberg declined to comment in detail on that relationship but said he was in " personal touch" with World Bank leaders. Though company insiders say World Bank president Mr. Conable has been cooperative, publicly he has criticized the spinoff and urged Merrill Lynch to retain  51 percent  of the company.

The Delphi-UAW talks will coincide with the union's triennial contract negotiations with  GM ,  Ford Motor Co.  and the  Chrysler  unit of  DaimlerChrysler AG . The  UAW  is expected to demand that  Delphi 's hourly workers get virtually the same deal as  GM 's hourly workers. Delphi no longer has any plants that are unprofitable, in some cases because its unions agreed to relax restrictive work rules,  Battenberg  said. In  Kokomo ,  Ind. , for example, the  UAW  agreed to work rule changes to allow the electronics plant to operate 24 hours a day, seven days a week.  Battenberg  said  Delphi  plans to focus on acquiring companies that can supply future technology, especially in the area of high-tech electronics as computers and satellite telecommunications become more integrated into the design of car and truck interiors. " I look at  Delphi  becoming an electronics company that makes products for vehicles, which is a lot more attractive than a traditional auto-parts company,"  Lawrence  said. Though  Delphi  has been trimming its work force through attrition, the company may end up adding workers if it meets its goals to increase new business,  Battenberg  said. Later this month,  Delphi  will debut a  $ 1 million  TV-and-print advertising campaign to coincide with the  Indianapolis  500 auto race.
The World Bank is being criticized for failing to adequately respond to the Third World debt crisis. Reagan appointee President Barber Conable clings to a traditional role for the bank as a development--not financial--institution, supports the administration's plan of loans to countries pursuing economic reforms, and rarely intervenes in individual nations' crises. Many economists and politicians urge a more aggressive role. A recent Conable study suggests this may begin after Reagan leaves office. The Third World debt totaled $1.19 trillion last year. In 1986, the 17 most heavily indebted nations paid back lenders $18 billion more than they got in new loans.

 The campaign and 20-city roadshow are intended to make  Delphi  a brand known outside the auto industry. 
