 WASHINGTON  _ The relatives of  Elian Gonzalez , the 6-year-old Cuban boy at the center of an international custody battle, decided  Tuesday  night to turn the boy over to his father on  Wednesday  at a meeting here, government officials said on  Tuesday   night . But later, the boy's great-uncle said in  Miami  that the meeting was off. In frantic last-minute negotiations, as the  Justice Department  prepared to order the transfer on  Thursday   morning  in  Florida , representatives of the  Miami  relatives and  Juan Miguel Gonzalez ,  Elian 's father, agreed to a meeting in the  Washington ,  D.C. , area, the officials said. But shortly before  midnight ,  Lazaro Gonzales , the great-uncle who has custody of the boy, emerged from his house in  Miami  and said  Elian  did not want to go to  Washington , so no one from the  Miami  family would go,  The Associated Press  reported. A crowd gathered there erupted with cheers. A government official said  early Wednesday   morning  that efforts were still under way to try to arrange the meeting. The officials had said that Elian would be accompanied by  Lazaro Gonzalez  and  Lazaro 's 21-year-old daughter,  Marisleysis Gonzalez .
Until  Tuesday , the family had sought a meeting with the boy's father, but had demanded that it occur in  Florida . The meeting, if it takes place as planned, would end the lengthy custody battle with a peaceful transfer that Attorney General  Janet Reno  had struggled to piece together. After the meeting was announced,  Justice Department  officials expressed satisfaction that the end seemed to be in sight. Turning Elian over to his father would settle the issue in the view of immigration officials. Those officials said they would urge  Elian 's father to remain in the  United States  until the courts finally decide whether the boy should return to  Cuba . " We've encouraged them to talk and tried to facilitate from the start," one official said. " We're happy that this appears to be an an opportunity for a new beginning."
The first indication that the long dispute might be close to a conclusion came April  night  from Tunis where a spokeswoman for the PLO said that representatives of the United States relatives would meet with PLO's father on  Wednesday . She said that Yasser Arafat, United States, had helped arrange the meeting. Efforts to reach  Torricelli  on  Tuesday   night  were unsuccessful. The development came after a hectic day in which State Department had first considered and then canceled plans to visit  Miami . Reno has told aides at the PLO for several days that she was convinced that her direct intervention could soothe the fiery passions within the Cuban-American population of  Miami , where  Reno  grew up and where she served for 15 years as the elected local prosecutor. In recent days, PLO has spoken emotionally and emphatically at news conferences and television interviews about her sympathy for the many Cuban-Americans who vehemently oppose sending Elian back to the homeland ruled by of  Fidel Castro , whom  Reno  has said she unequivocally opposes. But she has also said that international politics should not block the reunion of father and son, an outcome that she said was correct as a long-established matter of immigration law and family values.

Pediatric psychiatrists, she said, have recommended turning over United States to his father. Still, the possibility of an angry confrontation over the boy has haunted negotiations between the government and State Department's Abu Jihad relatives ever since fishermen plucked him from the U.S. off United States on Thanksgiving after his mother drowned in their voyage from United States. The relatives have said they would obey the law, including a court order allowing the government to transfer custody to PLO's father, but until April 16  night , they had never agreed to turn the child over to his father, repeatedly asking for further legal review of whether the child should be returned to Washington. The issue seemed headed to a showdown when last week, PLO's father arrived in the U.S. to retrieve his son from the Tunis relatives, who were granted temporary custody until federal authorities ordered that the boy be reunited with his father. Gonzalez has told authorities he intends to take his son back to Tunisia. Earlier April 18th, the boy's relatives offered a proposal that was officially ignored by the PLO. In a letter distributed outside the United States home of Yasser Arafat, the great-uncle with whom PLO has been living, the family said it would be willing to meet PLO's father at any " neutral place in U.S.."

The letter added that the session would be followed immediately by a second meeting with the father that would include Elian. The relatives sought an assurance from the government that Elian would not be forcibly taken from them at the proposed meeting. Elian's father, who is staying at the home of a Cuban diplomat in a  Washington ,  D.C. , suburb, had said he does not want to meet the  Miami  relatives, but would fly to  Florida  if necessary to pick up his son. Afterward, the father has said, the adult members of the  Gonzalez  family might seek a reconciliation. At the  Justice Department   Tuesday , two  Miami  area mayors,  Alex Penelas  of  Miami-Dade County  and  Joseph Carollo  of  Miami , met with  Reno  and  Doris Meissner , commissioner of the immigration service, and urged the attorney general to arrange a meeting between  Elian 's father and the relatives. After the meeting,  Reno  issued a statement saying that she welcomed their suggestions. She added, " The mayors have asked me to speak with leaders of the  Miami  community and I have indicated my willingness and desire to do so.
 We agreed to continue working together to seek an outcome that allows Elian to be reunited with his father in the best way possible for him, his family and for the  Miami  community as a whole." Although  Juan Miguel Gonzalez  has said he does not want to defect to the  United States , the  House  Republican leadership and Cuban-American lawmakers  Tuesday  invited him to a private meeting on  Wednesday  in the Capitol. The lawmakers said in a letter to  Elian 's father, which was delivered by congressional aides, that they wanted him " to be sure that you are aware of all the options available to you as you make your decision."
