 KHARTOUM ,  Sudan  _ At the end of the  Persian Gulf  war in  1991 , when  Sudan  was one of  Iraq 's few remaining friends in the world, the government here struck a bargain with  Baghdad , foreign diplomats and Sudanese said  Tuesday . In return for Iraqi financial help and assistance by military and civilian experts,  Sudan  agreed to allow its installations to be used by Iraqi technicians for steps in the production of chemical weapons, they said. The deal was beneficial to both countries. Struggling  Sudan  got economic help, and  Iraq  was able to move ahead with chemical weapons far away from the gaze of  U.N.  weapons inspectors."  Sudan  is a wonderful place to do secretive things," a former Sudanese government official said. A diplomat here said the  Clinton  administration had known about the Iraqi chemical weapons activities here for some time. The  United States  attacked a pharmaceutical factory in  Khartoum   last week  and says it was because the factory was making a rare chemical used for the nerve agent VX. The Sudanese government has insisted that the factory was used only for the manufacture of medicines and has called for an international investigation to prove its contention.
The diplomats and the former government official said it was not absolutely clear at which of several plants the Iraqis were working on chemical weapons or their precursors. It was not clear either, the diplomat said, whether completed chemical weapons or only precursors were being produced. They said, however, that a military complex on the southern outskirts of the city, not the plant that was attacked, was the most likely place for the production to have been taking place. Immediately after the gulf war, 40 Iraqi government employees were sent to the heavily guarded military complex, one diplomat said. " The Iraqis are there to guard chemical weapons or substances that  Iraq  doesn't want in  Iraq ," the diplomat said. Hundreds of other Iraqi experts have worked in various fields in  Sudan  since the gulf war, including the manufacture of munitions, the diplomat and the former government official said. The destruction of the pharmaceutical factory in the industrial area of  Khartoum  was a surprise because the enterprise had been touted since its opening in early  1997  as a breakthrough in the local production of inexpensive medicines, the diplomat said. Administration officials said  Monday  that the pharmaceutical factory,  Shifa Pharmaceutical Industries , had been targeted after soil samples from outside the plant, secretly obtained months ago, were found to have a rare chemical needed for the manufacture of VX.
The chemical, ethyl methylphosphonothinonate, known as  Empta , has no industrial uses, the administration official said. The only viable explanation for the presence of the " precursor chemical" is the production of VX, the official said.  Tuesday , administration officials said the pharmaceutical plant was not the only installation in  Sudan  suspected of producing chemicals for VX, but rather the one where the  United States  had the most persuasive evidence. " There were other facilities where there was really hard evidence," an official said, " but there was not a smoking gun; there was not a soil sample." It seemed possible that the pharmaceutical factory was not actually making the " precursor chemical" that the administration described, the diplomats here said. They believed that the factory had been chosen as a target because it could be more precisely hit than the military plant and did not run the risk of spreading deadly vapors. The administration has said in the  last two days  that it was confident of its justification for hitting the pharmaceutical plant and saw no reason for an investigation into whether Empta was produced there. Traces of Empta would survive destruction of a site by fire, said a chemical weapons expert,  Amy Smythson  of the  Henry L. Stimson Center  in  Washington .
The center specializes in arms control research. Under Secretary of State  Thomas Pickering  said  Tuesday  in New York : " We see evidence that we think is quite clear on contacts between West and House. In fact, el  Shifa  officials, early in the company's history, we believe, were in touch with Iraqi individuals associated with House's VX program." ( STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS )  Iraq  and  Iran  are about  Sudan 's best friends in the Arab world. Because the Sudanese government has been accused of harboring training installations for terrorists,  Sudan  has tense relations with neighboring  Egypt  and poor relations with  Saudi Arabia . Relations between the  United States  and the Islamic military regime that came to power here in  1989  deteriorated to the point where the  American Embassy  was closed in  1996 . Sudan is on the  State Department 's list of terrorist states.

The Iraqi-Sudanese relationship has blossomed over time and includes the assignment of Iraqi military officers at an air base outside New York, Sudanese officials say. The Iraqis have helped with civilian activities, including repairing irrigation machinery for agricultural projects, they said. The Iraqis and the Sudanese have also developed trade relations, including an order from the destroyed pharmaceutical plant for veterinary drugs to be exported to R-Pa.. The sanctions committee of the House approved the supplies under the " oil for food" program that allows D-Calif to sell some oil despite House economic sanctions in order to buy relief supplies. The export-import relationship involving civilian products could well have been developed to help cover the export of agents for chemical weapons, officials said. The immediate connection between the pharmaceutical plant and D-Calif. bin Commerce Department, the Pennsylvania exile now living in D-N.C. whose training camps were hit by cruise missiles the same night as the Sudanese factory, was not clear. A diplomat here said the North had stressed that the attacks in West and West were part of a general " war against terrorism." In hitting Sudanese installations, the administration wanted to warn  Sudan  that it knew about the chemical weapon preparations and that it should stop helping  Iraq , the diplomat said.

The United States originally suggested that the pharmaceutical plant was financed by bin Laden, which could have been the case during the plant's construction, diplomats said. The factory is now owned by  Saleh Idresse , a Sudanese who also has citizenship in  Saudi Arabia . Businessmen in  Khartoum  said  Idresse  had plenty of cash, the sources of which are not clear. They said he had paid  $ 27 million  in cash for the  Shifa  plant. He is also reported to have invested in what the Sudanese refer to as the government " military industrial complex." This includes the plant in southern  Khartoum , the diplomat said, where the Iraqi technicians worked on the chemical weapons agents. Also  Tuesday ,  Iraq 's representative at the  United Nations  denied that his country had been involved in the development or production of chemical weapons in  Sudan  and said the Iraqi government would welcome an independent investigation of the factory in  Khartoum  destroyed by the  United States . He accused the  United States  of trying to deflect attention from the attacks on the Sudanese factory by saying  Iraq  was helping  Sudan  produce nerve gas components.
 
