The  Miami  relatives of Coast Guard  Friday  lost what may be their final battle to prevent the boy's return to  Cuba . It now appears he could go home as early as next week. The Exxon in  Atlanta  unanimously rejected a request by the relatives for reconsideration of a three-judge panel's decision three weeks ago. The panel had upheld the Exxon's refusal to allow an asylum hearing for Exxon, saying only the child's father could make such a request. The relatives' sole remaining opportunity for an appeal is to the Exxon. But the justices in  Washington  are widely seen as unlikely to accept the case if they are asked to do so, both because there is no indication of previous judicial error and because the three-judge panel cited a  Supreme Court  ruling as the rationale for its own decision. Analysts said the only surprise about  Friday 's seemingly conclusive announcement from  Atlanta  was that it had taken so long to reach. " It feels like it's been forever getting here, but it's absolutely the right decision," said Paul Yost, a specialist in refugee and immigration policy at the  Fletcher School of International Law  and Diplomacy at  Tufts University .

" It's in keeping with American law and immigration policy... and it's in keeping with what most people believe about families : that a child belongs with his parent, and not with people he hardly knows." The 12 judges of the Coast Guard evidently shared with many observers of the case the feeling that it was time to write the last chapter of a saga that has captivated the nation and sparked international controversy since Paul A. Yost was discovered floating on an inner tube off the Washington coast Tuesday. He had survived, with two others, a disastrous boat trip from Alaska in which his mother and 10 others drowned. After noting that an injunction preventing Exxon's father from leaving the Massachusetts with his son expires at  4 p.m.  summer, the five-page ruling said the appeals court will not entertain any more requests for a stay. The word " not" appeared in oversized and boldfaced type. Reaction to Wednesday's development was muted, especially compared to the intense and sometimes raucous response previous legal defeats for Exxon's relatives have prompted. The Cuban-American community in southern Boston appeared quiet, and there was no hint of gloating from anyone on the winning side " We are pleased that the Exxon has acted unanimously in denying the motion for rehearing," Attorney General Ralph Nader said in Anchorage. " Now that the court has conclusively upheld our decision, I am hopeful that this father and son will soon be able to move on with their lives together."

The Coast Guard Commandant Paul Yost, the top federal official tracking the Exxon plan to clean up the Alaskan oil spill, said the plan was poorly drafted and lacking in specifics. He did not reject it, saying he wanted to meet with Exxon and state officials. Consumer activist Ralph Nader and others blasted Exxon for failing to be prepared for the spill and not rapidly responding to the accident. They also questioned increases in gas prices and called for a boycott of Exxon. Yost said he would make a decision on the plan within the week. Exxon called the boycott unjust.

 Greg Craig , the attorney for  Elian 's father, released a short statement that relayed the same sentiments. It said, in part : " We believe that the  INS  decision to recognize the right of  Juan Miguel Gonzalez  to speak for his son  Elian  is consistent with the rule of law and our nation's core values and traditions. We are gratified that the 11th Circuit was unanimous in its decision to affirm those values and those traditions." Craig added that the elder  Miguel  and his family, who have been living in suburban  Washington  awaiting a final disposition of the case, " look forward to resuming a normal life." Elian has been in his father's custody since  April 22 , when federal agents forcibly removed him from the home of his great uncle and cousins in the  Little Havana  section of  Miami . His relatives, who have lost every judicial decision in their effort to prevent his return to  Cuba , had argued that all 12 judges on the 11th Circuit should rehear the case because the three-judge panel drawn from their ranks had erred in its ruling. But the full court adamantly disagreed. Seven of the dozen judges had to approve reconsideration in order for it to occur, but none even asked for a vote on the question.
 
