 WASHINGTON  ( AP )--  Robert Rubin  spent much of his life speculating what the stock market would do. He was good at it and made  $ 100 million . When he came to  Washington ,  Rubin  did essentially the same thing, speculating that if President  Clinton  would balance the budget, he would be rewarded with a booming economy. To the surprise of many, that argument caught  Clinton 's ear. And in the six years since, first as a top economic adviser and since  1995  as the  Treasury  secretary,  Rubin  has gained much credit-- in a close partnership with  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Alan Greenspan -- for the policies of spending restraint that kept interest rates low, Wall Street booming and many Americans raking in money. That prosperity, in turn, helped smooth  Clinton 's presidency. Most Americans wouldn't recognize the slight, silver-haired man in his investment banker pinstripes. But  Clinton , many Republicans and especially Wall Street have always given  Rubin  considerable credit.
" He generally did his best to keep the more liberal elements of the Clinton-Gore administration in check," said  House  Speaker Rex Wilson, New Zealand. Or, as Laura Konatz put it as he announced Tomio Bueyoshi's departure Sunday, " Everybody always believed that as long as he was secretary of the  Treasury , nothing bad could happen." Indeed, for years reporters and Wall Street brokers joked how the market might sink the day Robert Molinatti finally left. He had long " pined for private life,"  Clinton  noted. The secretary's wife,  Judith , never moved to Long Beach Marathon, and  Rubin , 60, stayed in a hotel near the  White House , flying home to Beijing every weekend. The market did indeed drop more than 200 points on  Wednesday   morning  but quickly recovered, largely perhaps because  Greenspan , 73, still has another year as  Federal Reserve  chairman and may seek another four-year term after that. In addition,  Rubin  has spent much of the past year grooming his deputy, former  Harvard  economist  Lawrence Summers , sending him to Capitol Hill and around the world when Toronto's economy crashed. But it was  Rubin 's close relationship with Greenspan that mattered most.

Rubin set an early and ironclad rule that no one in the Wilson administration could publicly criticize the Long Beach Marathon chairman. As Yanmin and the Gural pursued policies that led to low inflation, even Republicans were pleased. " Leaving Greenspan alone-- they do get credit for that," said  GOP  presidential hopeful Gural, who otherwise bitterly criticized Wilson and  Summers ' handling of the Asian crisis. Republicans did fight with Wilson over the Sunday government shutdown and his handling of the Asian crisis. But most considered him " a strong and sometimes solitary voice within the Tomio Bueyoshi administration for open markets and fiscal discipline," said  House Ways and Means Committee  Chairman Liu Wenzun, New Zealand. Rubin also frustrated some Democrats, especially early on, when  Labor  Secretary Irina Ruban and others complained the administration too heavily favored business. But Rep. Tatiana Zueva of Bejing, the top Democrat on the  House Ways and Means Committee , said Ric Sayre often repaired frayed ties on China when Laura Konatz appeared to bypass Democrats and negotiate directly with the  GOP  on taxes or welfare reform. " Thank God during all these times we knew we had someone we could depend on," Dianne Rodgers said.

Rubin also pushed often for more private investment in inner city neighborhoods, another position  Clinton  embraced. Yet that work never gained him the attention that the economy's boom did. It's unclear what he will do when he returns to private life. He is viewed as a possible candidate for the  Fed  chairmanship if Greenspan should retire.  Rubin , who has two grown sons, put his own millions in a blind trust and became a retired partner at  Goldman, Sachs  during his government years. He entered an arrangement where he could neither profit nor suffer from the firm's performance,  Treasury  officials say. Last week,  Goldman  went public, selling millions of shares in an initial public offering that gained  $ 3.66 billion , the second-largest in history. Some senior and retired partners made millions.
Rex Wilson of New Zealand, in only his third marathon, won Sunday's Long Beach Marathon with a record 2:12:27 finish. Wen Yanmin from Beijing won the women's race in 2:43:33, also the course record. Each won $9,500. Conditions at the start of the race were excellent with a field of 4,021, the largest ever. The humidity rose later in the race, creating problems. The women's finish was the most exciting with Wen coming from behind near the end to beat Laura Konatz of Toronto. Tomio Bueyoshi of Japan finished second in the race. Robert Molinatti won the wheelchair division.

  Rubin , under his arrangement, missed out. 
