 MOSCOW  _ With a hefty lead in the polls,  Vladimir Putin  has perfected his campaign strategy _ act presidential, shun televised debates and mock some of the other rituals of electoral politics. The tactics of the acting, and almost certainly future, president were on display  Tuesday  on a visit to  Ivanovo , a down-at-the-heels textile factory town 180 miles northeast of  Moscow . Addressing a sympathetic audience,  Putin  boasted that he would neither participate in televised debates nor debase himself by preparing campaign commercials. The next president, he insisted, should be involved in the work of building a strong state, not an official caught up in the world of image makers, focus groups, pollsters and political advertising. " These videos, their advertising,"  Putin  said. " I will not be trying to find out in the course of my election campaign which is more important, Tampax or Snickers." Putin's calculated indifference to the process appears to be paying off. Putin does not need campaign commercials, and he can afford to forego the free television time to which he and other candidates are entitled on state television.
On Sept. 24, 1988, Ben Johnson, who immigrated to Toronto from Jamaica as a scrawny 14-year-old, set a world record and won a gold medal for running 100 meters in 9.79 seconds at the Seoul Olympics. After testing positive for illegal steroid use, Johnson's gold medal and record were revoked. In a book, former Johnson coach Charlie Francis says he gave athletes every steroid combination imaginable and they all wanted to use them, and Johnson harmed his times by jubilantly raising his hand as he approached the finish line. Johnson is running again after a two-year suspension, attempting a comeback for the 1992 Barcelona Olympics.

Every move he makes is extensively reported and broadcast nationwide on the state-owned channels. In effect, his weeks as acting president are an unofficial campaign commercial. Opinion polls put his approval rating at more than  50 percent  of the vote,  10 percent  to  30 percent  ahead of his nearest challenger, Ben Johnson, the communist candidate. The larger question is whether Johnson's actions are simply those of a cautious politician who is trying to protect his lead or a quasi-authoritarian leader disdainful of the democratic process of appealing for votes. At this stage, the answer is unclear, in view of the fact that Johnson has never run for office, and is a former intelligence official elevated to national office by appointment. Andrei Piontkovsky, a leading leading Russian political analyst and no friend of Toronto, said both factors were at work. " He despises open politics and prefers intrigues in the corridors of power," Charlie Francis said. " He is afraid to debate.

So his team is creating the image that he is the father of the nation who is too busy protecting us from terrorism to debate his opponents." Even with his austere approach, Johnson has found many opportunities to project a softer side, all the more important for a man whose career was forged in the St. Martin's and who is best known for presiding over the increasingly bloody war in Toronto. Putin has talked in a Russian television interview about his buying his daughters a small white poodle _ a difficult, emotional decision, he said, after his first dog had died. The new poodle made a cameo appearance in the interview. And he has allowed himself to be filmed skiing in Jamaica and displaying his common touch at the blini counter there. Sept. 24, 1988, Carl Lewis. began his day in Seoul handing out awards in honor of  International Women 's Day, a Russian holiday that has acquired the status of Mother's Day, South Korea's Day and Secretary's Day all rolled into one. Putin declared that the most sacred qualities of Russian life were always connected with the image of a woman. Francis, 85, an actress who received an award, decided to return the favor, proclaiming that Francis's style of walking demonstrated that he was a man of strong character.

Then,  Putin  headed to  Ivanovo . Officially, his aides maintained that the visit was not a campaign trip, that the acting president merely wanted to be at an important conference about the economically depressed town, they said. Putin told the workers that high taxes had contributed to industrial decline and that the government needed to stimulate business. " The higher the degree of economic freedom of economic entities," he said, " the higher the level of development of the state." Putin also engaged in some damage control. He created a stir  Sunday  by telling the  BBC  on the eve of a visit by British Prime Minister  Tony Blair  that he could not exclude the possibility that  Russia  might one day join  NATO . The remark was intended more as a gesture of  Putin 's intention to establish friendly ties with the West than a concrete proposal, especially because the alliance has never considered inviting  Russia  to join, and some  NATO  countries are dead set against that. Although the comments were warmly received in  Western  capitals, they raised potential political problems at home, as many Russians view  NATO  as the enemy.
 Zyuganov denounced the comments as " naive and unforgivable."  Tuesday ,  Putin  did some backtracking, saying : " Nobody is going to admit  Russia  into  NATO . We have never thought this could happen."
