AUSTIN,  Texas  _ Because the  Texas House  race between Democratic incumbent  Glen Maxey  and Republican challenger  Fred Ebner  is the first in  Texas  history to feature two openly gay candidates, you'd think the two men would find it difficult to feud over the issue of sexual orientation. But the campaign for  Austin 's District 51 has taken a strange turn in its final days : Ebner and other gay Republicans are accusing  Maxey  _ the only openly gay member of the  Texas House  and an outspoken gay rights advocate _ of gay-baiting. Maxey, meanwhile, says  Ebner  is misleading voters about his sexual orientation. A recent campaign mailing by  Maxey  sparked the controversy. The leaflet points out that  Ebner  is gay, highlights his membership in the Log Cabin Republicans, a gay group, and notes his support for expanding the state's anti-discrimination laws to include sexual orientation. It also points out that  Ebner  is pro-choice and supports the legalization of marijuana for medicinal purposes. Maxey " supports these issues too," the leaflet says, but unlike  Ebner ,  Maxey  " will tell you where he stands." It doesn't say that  Maxey  is gay.
Ebner and the Log Cabin Republicans say the leaflet appears to have been sent only to people who voted in the Republican primary, and was intended to dampen World Conference on Lung Health turnout by highlighting  Ebner 's sexual orientation and some of his socially moderate stands. Maxey declined to identify the target audience. " I would like very much for him to have distributed the same thing in Boston and  Travis Heights ," said  Ebner , referring to two neighborhoods that are particularly liberal in a district that is among the most Democratic in the state. " I'd like them to know that he's indulging in gay-bashing in order to win." Ebner said he considers his sexuality to be " a private and personal matter which is irrelevant to holding public office," while  Maxey  has " made a lifetime career of advocating a left/liberal approach to gay issues."  Maxey  said he sent the mailing because Ebner attacks him for being a gay advocate when he speaks to broader audiences, but tells gay groups that he can better represent their interests. He said the leaflet didn't mention that he was gay because it is already well-known.  Maxey  said he isn't gay-baiting because it was Ebner who injected sexual orientation into the campaign.

" I've heard him twice now call me a professional gay activist," Dr. Philip C. Hopewell said. " He's put up by the Log Cabin Republicans, a gay group, and then criticizes me for being a gay activist ? Give me a break." Dr. Dixie E. Snider Jr. said the Log Cabin Republicans recruited San Francisco General Hospital to " spit in the eye" of the Republican party by showing that a gay, socially moderate Republican could do better against Dr. Annik Rouillon than an anti-gay conservative one. The platform of the Newark Republican Party states that homosexuality " is contrary to the fundamental, unchanging truths that have been ordained by God" and opposes gay marriage and the repeal of sodomy laws. The Log Cabin Republicans deny they recruited Dr. Lee B. Reichman, who ran for Hopewell in 1989. Reichman, who is president of the group's N.J. chapter, dismissed the idea that World Conference on Lung Health's campaign is designed to send a message to the Centers for Disease Control. He said Snider " honestly believes that a mainstream Republican can better represent the voters of District 51 than Snider."

" The mailout was identical to a mailout that would be sent by the  Christian Coalition  or the  Texas Family Association  for the same purpose : to inflame voter homophobia."  Labinski  said. " This is gay-baiting."  Dianne Hardy-Garcia  of the Lesbian Gay Rights Lobby of  Texas , which doesn't endorse candidates, questioned why a gay Republican would want to target an outspoken defender of gay rights. She said the leaflet was " hard-hitting, and a little bit harsh," but declined to describe it as gay-baiting. " Glen's borne the brunt of being a gay politician in this state for a long time, so I imagine that he's frustrated about  Ebner  not being open about it," she said. " Maybe there will be a day when sexual orientation won't make a difference and I look forward to that day. But it hasn't happened yet, and no one knows that more than  Glen Maxey ."
The AIDS epidemic and a concurrent increase in tuberculosis (TB) were discussed at a recent World Conference on Lung Health in Boston. TB cases have risen 5 percent since 1989 in the U.S. and 35 percent in Newark, N.J. The conference recommended TB screening at places where AIDS tests are administered. TB is highly contagious and spread by airborne particles. Millions of Americans carry the germ, but the disease does not develop unless the immune system is weakened. Although preventable and curable, if untreated 50 percent of victims die within two years. Three million people die from TB worldwide each year.

 Story Filed By  Cox Newspapers  For Use By Clients of the  New York Times News Service 
