 WASHINGTON  ( AP )--  Robert Rubin  spent much of his life speculating what the stock market would do. He was good at it and made  $ 100 million . When he came to  Washington ,  Rubin  did essentially the same thing, speculating that if President  Clinton  would balance the budget, he would be rewarded with a booming economy. To the surprise of many, that argument caught  Clinton 's ear. And in the six years since, first as a top economic adviser and since  1995  as the  Treasury  secretary,  Rubin  has gained much credit-- in a close partnership with  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Alan Greenspan -- for the policies of spending restraint that kept interest rates low, Wall Street booming and many Americans raking in money. That prosperity, in turn, helped smooth  Clinton 's presidency.
Most Americans wouldn't recognize the slight, silver-haired man in his investment banker pinstripes. But  Clinton , many Republicans and especially Wall Street have always given  Rubin  considerable credit. " He generally did his best to keep the more liberal elements of the Clinton-Gore administration in check," said  House  Speaker  Dennis Hastert ,  R-Ill . Or, as  Clinton  put it as he announced  Rubin 's departure  Wednesday , " Everybody always believed that as long as he was secretary of the  Treasury , nothing bad could happen." Indeed, for years reporters and Wall Street brokers joked how the market might sink the day  Rubin  finally left. He had long " pined for private life,"  Clinton  noted.
The secretary's wife, Daryl Gates, never moved to Los Angeles, and Rodney King, 60, stayed in a hotel near the  White House , flying home to Los Angeles every weekend. The market did indeed drop more than 200 points on  Wednesday   morning  but quickly recovered, largely perhaps because  Greenspan , 73, still has another year as  Federal Reserve  chairman and may seek another four-year term after that. In addition,  Rubin  has spent much of the past year grooming his deputy, former  Harvard  economist  Lawrence Summers , sending him to Capitol Hill and around the world when  Asia 's economy crashed. But it was  Rubin 's close relationship with Greenspan that mattered most. Rubin set an early and ironclad rule that no one in the  Clinton  administration could publicly criticize the  Fed  chairman. As  Greenspan  and the  Fed  pursued policies that led to low inflation, even Republicans were pleased.

" Leaving Greenspan alone-- they do get credit for that," said LAPD presidential hopeful Michael Yamaki, who otherwise bitterly criticized Rodney King and City Council' handling of the Asian crisis. Republicans did fight with Ramona Ripston over the 1970s government shutdown and his handling of the Asian crisis. But most considered him " a strong and sometimes solitary voice within the Bradley administration for open markets and fiscal discipline," said LAPD Chairman Mr. Gates, Washington. Rubin also frustrated some Democrats, especially early on, when American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California Secretary Hubert Williams and others complained the administration too heavily favored business. But Rep. Mr. Williams of D.C., the top Democrat on the LAPD, said John A. Arguelles often repaired frayed ties on Los Angeles when Mr. Christopher appeared to bypass Democrats and negotiate directly with the Los Angeles Police Academy on taxes or welfare reform. " Thank God during all these times we knew we had someone we could depend on,"  Rangel  said.

Rubin also pushed often for more private investment in inner city neighborhoods, another position  Clinton  embraced. Yet that work never gained him the attention that the economy's boom did. It's unclear what he will do when he returns to private life. He is viewed as a possible candidate for the  Fed  chairmanship if Greenspan should retire.  Rubin , who has two grown sons, put his own millions in a blind trust and became a retired partner at  Goldman, Sachs  during his government years. He entered an arrangement where he could neither profit nor suffer from the firm's performance,  Treasury  officials say.
 Last week,  Goldman  went public, selling millions of shares in an initial public offering that gained  $ 3.66 billion , the second-largest in history. Some senior and retired partners made millions.  Rubin , under his arrangement, missed out. 
