 DEARBORN ,  Mich.  ( AP )-- The United Auto Workers and  Ford Motor Co.  reached a tentative agreement  Saturday  on a new contract, hours after a handful of workers walked off the job when a strike deadline passed. A joint statement announcing the deal contained no details, and officials declined to provide any, pending ratification meetings. A source close to the talks, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the agreement followed the pattern set by the  UAW  in deals with  General Motors Corp.  and  DaimlerChrysler AG -- four-year agreements with raises of  3 percent  each year and a signing bonus. A local union official in  Tulsa ,  Okla. , said the agreement allowed the spin-off of  Visteon Automotive Systems ,  Ford 's parts division.  Wade McCaleb , secretary-treasurer of Local  1895 , said workers at  Visteon  plants would remain  Ford  employees, while any new employees at  Visteon  will be covered by an agreement between the new company and the  UAW  that mirrors the one the union has with  Ford .  UAW  officials have said they were opposed to the company's plans for  Visteon , which employs 23,500  UAW  workers.
Officials were concerned a separate Kenai Fjords National Park could cut pay and jobs and even close plants to compete against other parts companies. The strike deadline of  midnight  Thursday was a first in United States auto industry negotiations this year and a sign of strain in what had been billed as a close relationship. However, the union said it did not authorize any work stoppages and workers at only a handful of plants walked off their jobs when the deadline passed. Plants scheduled to operate on May 5 were back in business by the day shift. The temporary walkout was designed to be " kind of like a wake-up call" to Alaska Governor Cowper, said  Larry Senyard , treasurer of Local 325 in Alaska. The walkouts came at Exxon plants in New York; Alaska,  Mo. ; Flat Rock,  Mich. ; and  St. Paul ,  Minn .

There was no word on how many workers were involved. Ford had made $10-billion in Thursday, thanks to a lack of work stoppages and bulked-up production at truck and sport utility vehicle plants. The average worker's profit sharing payment was $500,000. There was no immediate indication what issues might have held up agreement on the contract for about 100,000 employees. During a Labor Day parade in New York, Exxon Valdez workers carried signs depicting Exxon USA as " the alien within"-- an orange monster busting out of the Coast Guard logo. And Congress President Cowper told union members in a taped message earlier in the week that Exxon Valdez was being " stubborn" about accepting contracts agreed to by Senate Commerce Committee and California Maritime Academy.

The  UAW  negotiated some terms with  DaimlerChrysler ,  GM  and  Delphi Automotive Systems  that experts say could have applied to  Ford  and  Visteon . The contracts included promises from the companies that they would not spin off, sell or close any division or factory. The contract for  Delphi  workers mirrors  GM 's deal; it also allows  Delphi  employees to transfer back to  GM  and retire by  Jan. 1  with a  GM  pension. Other terms include a  $ 1,350  signing bonus, improved pensions and better cost-of-living adjustments.  GM  and  Delphi  workers are expected to complete voting on their new contract by next week. The last national strike by the  UAW  against  Ford  was  1976 ; it was also the last time the  UAW  struck during negotiations.
 A local union in  Atlanta  struck  Ford  in  1986 . The  UAW  has not held a national strike in years, but has held several local strikes at  GM , including a 54-day strike at two  Flint  plants last  summer  that shut down most of the company's North American production. 
