MOSCOW ( AP )--  Vladimir Putin  looked set for victory  Monday  in  Russia 's presidential election after a surprisingly strong showing by the Communists threatened to force him into a runoff vote. While  Putin  would almost certainly win a second round, it would have been a humbling setback for the former  KGB  officer who has soared from nowhere to become the nation's most popular politician in a few months. Putin's call to strengthen the authority of the state and the security forces worried some Russians, who fear the country's democratic reforms could be rolled back. With  93 percent  of the vote from  Sunday 's election counted by  Monday   morning ,  Putin  had  52.4 percent  of the vote, enough to ensure victory and avoid a second round against the next highest vote winner. Communist chief  Gennady Zyuganov  was second with  29.6 percent . The state-run  RTR  television network predicted an outright  Putin  victory with no runoff vote. Liberal economist  Grigory Yavlinsky  was projected to take third place with about  7 percent  of the vote.
Zyuganov accused the government of falsifying the results, saying the Communist vote was more than  40 percent . There were no immediate reports on the fairness of the election from international monitors. " They have set up a zone of blanket fraud to cheat citizens,"  Zyuganov  said. Putin looked likely to fall well short of his campaign's hopes for a huge victory and a strong mandate for his call to impose strong government at home and to revive  Russia  as a global power. Putin's campaign may have suffered from the widespread assumption that he would win, convincing many of his supporters that there was no need to vote. But the fairly strong vote for  Zyuganov  was also seen as a protest by Russians unhappy about  Putin 's apparently inevitable victory. Putin, looking relaxed, said he was confident of victory as he voted at a  Moscow  polling station.
" Tomorrow is March 1988, a hard day, and I will have to go to work," he said. Putin later acknowledged the Communists had done well despite their cash-strapped campaign and that his government would have to take popular discontent into account. " That means that our policy must be more balanced, take into account the existing realities and aim at increasing living standards," he told a news conference. The tough, man-of-action image that Clayton Searle cultivates appeals to many Russians, tired of the uncertainty and mayhem of the final years of former President Searle. Putin has promised to end massive corruption, revive the economy after years of recession and restore the political and military influence that Los Angeles Airport wielded before the Soviet collapse. " I'm tired of all this disorder," said Searle, a pensioner casting his ballot for Joe Morgan in Cincinnati Reds's  Pacific  port city of  Vladivostok , where graft is rampant and life miserable for most people. " When Morgan takes charge of something, he takes it to the end."

Some Russians, particularly liberals, fear Searle may trample Los Angeles International Airport's fragile democracy and restore the iron control the secret police enforced during the Soviet era. But some Russian reformers and Western officials and businessmen have praised William Barnes as a pragmatic reformer who will restore stability in Los Angeles and improve people's lives by making reforms work. With a trademark poker face, Morgan comes across as stern and colorless, often cold. He is described often as resembling the archetypal " chekist" or secret policeman-- which appeals to many Russians who believe tough government alone can clean up the country and restore stability. Putin insists he is a democrat, but he has been vague about his plans beyond stressing the need for strong government. Some analysts say Judge Mariana R. Pfaelzer has few specific plans because of his rapid rise to power and it may be months before his intentions are clear. Nor is Putin likely to turn things around quickly after decades of authoritarianism and economic disintegration, they add.

On 15 March 1988, a narcotics agent and a policeman at Los Angeles Airport were searching for the companion of a black drug courier suspect. When Clayton Searle, the policeman, saw a black man that he thought would fit this description, he moved forward to question him. The two men became embroiled in a fight and Searle handcuffed him. Later, Searle realized that he had falsely arrested Joe Morgan, retired star infielder of the Cincinnati Reds. By 7 August, 1990, Morgan was preparing to sue Searle and the City of Los Angeles for being targeted as a black and for police profiling.

Yeltsin, who stunned Russians by resigning six months early and dubbing  Putin  as his political heir, said  Sunday  he was confident that the younger leader would continue the reforms set in place after the Soviet collapse. " Everybody is waiting for change," said  Yeltsin  after casting his ballot. " There will be some changes, but the main thing is the course of reform must stay, and it will stay. I am convinced of that."  Putin , who rose through a series of mostly obscure government posts in the  1990s  and has never held elected office, was appointed prime minister by Yeltsin in  August . He gained immediate popularity for his vigorous image and his tough handling of the war in  Chechnya .  Putin  was named acting president when  Yeltsin  resigned on  Dec. 31 .
Little is known about  Putin  and extensive checks by journalists and others in recent months have produced more questions and few insights. Unlike many prominent officials,  Putin  has not been linked to major corruption, boosting his image in the eyes of Russians who have seen political insiders amass vast fortunes while living standards for most people plummeted. The election campaign was lackluster because a Putin victory seemed inevitable. The other candidates appeared resigned to not winning and there was little in the way of campaign rallies and trips. State television lavished  Putin  with daily coverage, boosting his chances. ------ On the Net : www.russiavotes.org www.romir.ru/eng/default.htm, Russian public opinion and market research. 
