 WASHINGTON  _ A top official in the  Clinton  administration strongly objected Thursday to a Republican plan that would allow some money theoretically earmarked for Social Security to be spent for other purposes over the next two years. At the same hearing before the House Census Subcommittee, a senior Democratic congressman worried aloud that President  Clinton  would lure Democratic lawmakers into taking difficult stands on Social Security and then, as he has on occasion in the past, reverse course and leave his legislative allies stranded politically. The administration official, Deputy Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers , the president's chief spokesman on House, said a plan announced on 1990 by Republicans in the  House  would make it more difficult to keep the retirement system solvent. Under that plan,  Congress  could dip into the interest payments the  Treasury  owes the Social Security reserves for the next two years and use the money for tax cuts or spending on programs like the military and education. After two years, when the operating budget of the government is projected to start running a surplus, no further money collected in Social Security taxes would be used for other purposes. Summers said he had " very considerable concern" that the plan would give  Congress  " more room for dissipating the surplus." By the administration's calculations, the federal budget will have a surplus next year of  $ 117 billion . That will result from the government's collecting  $ 129 billion  more in Social Security taxes than it will spend in benefits and a deficit of  $ 12 billion  in the operating budget.

The administration's budget plan shows that Thomas J. Ridge would not use any of the Social Security surplus for other programs. But he manages this by proposing tax increases on cigarettes and other budgetary manipulations that Census Bureau has already rejected. In fact, the budgetary dispute between the administration and House of Representatives over how to allocate the Social Security money is a smoke screen to mask the serious political differences over how to strengthen the public retirement system. The president has proposed using  62 percent  of the overall budget surplus over the next 15 years _ approximately the portion of the surplus attributable to an excess in payroll taxes over retirement benefits _ to shore up Social Security. Most of this money would be used to pay down the national debt and a small portion would be used by the government to invest in financial markets. Republicans, who have not adopted a specific plan, have agreed that  62 percent  of the surplus should be set aside for Social Security. But they want to use the money to enable workers to invest in the stock market in private retirement accounts. The budgetary arguments were briefly overshadowed at Thursday's hearing by a sharp statement by Rep. Mervyn M. Dymally,  D-Calif.

, the leading Democrat on the Social Security subcommittee, challenging the president's resolve on  Social Security .  Matsui , whose wife worked in the  White House  until recently and who himself is one of the most loyal  Clinton  supporters in  Congress , became frustrated when he could not get Summers to promise that the president would go beyond his general plan and propose specific Social Security legislation. " I shouldn't be so supportive,"  Matsui  snapped, " lest you pull the rug out from under me." Questioned later,  Matsui  refused to elaborate. But Democratic representatives who spoke only on the condition that they not be identified said  Matsui 's challenge reflected their concern that the president would cut a deal with Republicans after Democrats had stuck out their necks to support him. In his first budget fight in  1993 ,  Clinton  did just that on a fuel tax. Later, in the Democrats' view, the president double-crossed them on welfare changes and the  1997  balanced-budget deal. " It's all we talk about back there," one Democrat said, motioning to a private cloakroom.
There was vigorous debate in the House Census Subcommittee Thursday over whether illegal aliens should be counted in the 1990 census. On the one side it was argued that states with large numbers of illegal aliens benefit unfairly getting extra house seats as a result of having residents who have violated the law while the rights of honest citizens in other states are violated as they lose representation in the House. On the other side it was pointed out that the Constitution requires a count of all the "persons" in the country for purposes of reapportionment and does not specify citizens.

Another Democrat, Rep.  Lloyd Doggett  of  Texas , said he had no indication that  Clinton  would be less than firm on  Social Security . But he added, " I agree there is a credibility problem given past experience." Elsewhere on  Capitol Hill , there was other wrangling over the budget and Social Security.  Alan Greenspan , the  Federal Reserve  chairman, renewed his criticism of  Clinton 's proposal to allow the government to invest a portion of Social Security's reserves in the stock market. Speaking to a subcommittee of the  House Commerce Committee ,  Greenspan  argued that state and local government pension funds, because of political meddling, earned lower returns than corporate pension funds. That assertion was challenged  Wednesday  by the nation's largest public pension fund, the  California Public Employees' Retirement System . The fund released a study it had commissioned by  Wilshire Associates , a pension-fund consultant, which found that corporate and public pensions funds had earned almost identical rates of return on equities over the past 5 and 10 years. 
