NEW YORK ( AP )-- It was the first day of school for  Macy 's new assistant buyers. The twentysomething recruits had barely signed in when one bustled up to training chief  Bernadette Commisa , asking : " How am I doing ?" " That took me back ! We had only just come in and taken attendance," Commisa recalls. " They see the world a little differently than we did." Bold, savvy, confident and often demanding, the 45 million youngsters dubbed Generation X are hard to miss in today's workplace, and the staider side of  Corporate America  is only just learning-- sometimes with eyebrows raised-- to cope with them.Com panies from  Macy 's to  Deloitte Consulting  are revamping their training and recruiting programs, educating managers and streamlining communications to better understand and utilize this sometimes maligned generation. " All we were exposed to was the ( images of the ) earring in the nose, snowboards and baggy clothing," says  Deborah Gatti , senior training specialist for  Mervyn 's department stores.
" We've had to train our culture about the great things about these folks, and their shortcomings, and how we can support them."  Sandra Bench , a 24-year-old Mervyn's manager in  Okemos ,  Mich. , is well aware of her generation's mixed reputation. " To me, Generation X defines an age group; to others, it defines a work ethic and many other things as well," she says. But wait. Good young workers have always questioned authority, asked lots of questions and rattled their elders' nerves. Is today's youth so different ? It seems so.
The House of Representatives' vote on the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) will be on November 16. A simple majority of 218 votes is needed for passage. Two factions that do not follow conventional party lines exist. One anti- NAFTA leader characterized the battle as the "elite" against the "populists". The pro- faction consists of the administration, the republican leadership, most big business leaders, some democrats, and some prominent environmental groups. The anti-faction includes labor, some democratic leaders including most of the black and Hispanic caucuses, ultra-conservatives, and Nader and Perot. The stakes are high for Clinton as his pro-NAFTA campaign goes into full swing.

Just as baby boomers were shaped by Watergate and the  Vietnam  War, the generation that ranges from their 20s up to mid-30s has been influenced by this era of technology, television, daycare, divorce and downsizing. As a result of growing up in a fast-paced world, these young adults are said to be even more skeptical and impatient with the status quo than previous generations. Often reared as latchkey children, they're fiercely independent, yet needy-- working well alone but requiring liberal doses of feedback. Disgusted by their parents' workaholism, they defend their right to a full life outside of work. " The GenX age group does come to the workplace with different expectations and experiences," says  Don Blanton , human resources director at  Sandia National Laboratories , a  Lockheed Martin  subsidiary that has revised key management training programs in the last year to include lessons on what makes Generation X tick. Just take a look at the many companies this generation has started, in  Silicon Valley  and elsewhere. Their offices are freewheeling, egalitarian, fast-paced, surf's- up kind of places, where play is taken as seriously as work.
It's no wonder that many conservative companies, run by aging baby boomers, have begun trying to adapt to this younger crowd. And adapt they must. A big reason that companies are bothering to bend to the new generation is they are literally " hot stuff." They get three, four or five offers in this tight job market, and many are confident to the point of arrogance. Further, they move on quickly. Americans hold an average of nearly nine different jobs by their 30s, according to the  Labor Department . Today's grads are bold enough to ask a prospective employer uncomfortable questions such as," ` If I don't like what my boss says, can I go to the next level ?"
says Nader, manager of college relations for House of Representatives. " With the strong economy... they can ask those questions that can push a company close to the edge of not liking them," says Herd, adding that young candidates have been so tough that NAFTA tossed its " fluff" brochures and now gives out hard-core information, even details on salaries, at job fairs and first meetings. Generation Xers also are making splashes in the workplace. NAFTA, a division of  Federated Department Stores , had to change its training of managers and of new recruits to keep up. Buyers had problems keeping the new generation of executives " motivated, stimulated, challenged and growing in their new careers," recalls Perot, until recently vice president of merchant development and recruitment. About 18 months ago,  Macy 's began sending top managers to a class on supervising employees that included lessons on Generation X. " Some of the older management needed to recognize that life has changed," said Naishtut. " Who cares whether ( GenXers ) are good or bad ?

The bottom line is that they are the future." At the same time, Nafta's began training assistant buyers on what they could expect at work, since paying dues isn't considered a GenX strong suit. " They're wondering why they're not at the Perot show the minute they get placed," says Buchanan, the merchant training director. Deloitte Consulting, whose average worker is 35-years-old, responded to GenX demands for feedback by adding to its evaluation process a primer on how to succeed at the company, says human resources managing director Brown. GenXers crave such roadmaps in order to manage in a world where workers get downsized regardless of seniority and skills quickly grow obsolete, says Mickey Kantor, a Generation X consultant. To satisfy their strong needs for independence and recognition, they also like to feel they're in the driver's seat. That's why Mervyn's revamped its recruit training from an ad hoc effort largely based on shadowing managers to a more formal program that includes self-paced written studies and active training.

" They've got the remote control," says  Gatti . " It's up to them to get through the program."  Russ Hamilton , a 23-year-old  Mervyn 's manager in  San Jose ,  Calif. , thoroughly approves. " For me, to read about and then actually do it makes me more comfortable with it," he says. " It allows me to feel confident in that task or job." His generation is also comfortable drawing the line at too much work. They are driving companies to allow employees to make use of work-life programs that were little promoted or honestly supported.
 They clearly reject the baby boomers' workaholic ethic.  Karen Morrell  recalls one  Deloitte  consultant who, after two years with the company, asked for a year's paid sabbatical. He didn't get it, but she says she has to admire the Generation X boldness. " If they want something, they ask for it,... ( and ) it's good business sense to listen," she says. " Their sense of balance and perspective and self-motivation is very good for our business."
