 WASHINGTON  _ The centerpiece of the  Clinton  administration's economic policy this year has been a demand that the Republican-controlled  Congress  forgo tax cuts and set aside the projected federal budget surplus until the nation shores up the Social Security system. It was a move that proved politically successful in blocking a key element of the Republican agenda, and it made economic sense against the backdrop of strong growth and incipient inflationary pressures. But with the global financial crisis rapidly changing the economic outlook for the worse, there are growing questions from both the left and the right about the wisdom of putting fiscal rectitude ahead of the potentially more pressing need to sustain growth. Indeed, with the administration facing the possibility of a recession for the first time since taking office, the  White House  could face a number of tough choices about whether the market-friendly policies that defined its approach during economic boom times are the best way to approach a more difficult period. " Bill  Clinton 's most memorable legacy apart from his  White House  dalliance will be balancing the budget," said  Robert Reich , who was labor secretary during  Clinton 's first term. " Now that there's a budget surplus, the administration has committed itself to saving the surplus for Social Security rather than succumbing to Republican tax cuts,"  Reich  said. " But this has put fiscal policy into a veritable straitjacket.
It's not possible for the  White House  to talk seriously about stimulating the economy through tax cuts or spending when it has bound itself so tightly to the idea of fiscal discipline." Administration officials said it is premature to be talking about a recession and that whatever path the economy takes the  United States  will have more flexibility and strength now that the deficit has been eliminated. In particular, they said, the  Federal Reserve Board  now has considerably more leeway to reduce interest rates to counter any downturn than it did the last two times the economy slid into recession, in  1990  and  1981 , when the deficit was rising sharply, making inflation worse. " The basic momentum of economic expansion should continue," said  Lawrence Summers , the deputy treasury secretary. " And with a budget in surplus and lower inflation expectations than anytime in more than three decades, the economy is well positioned to respond to any challenges that may arise." But just the possibility of a downturn is likely to unleash pressures on the administration to re-examine some of the principles behind its policies.  Clinton  took office in  1993  planning to give a traditional Keynesian boost to a still-sluggish economy through a big deficit spending package.
But he soon abandoned the effort under pressure from his own economic team, which convinced him there would be a considerable payoff in the form of lower interest rates if he could convince the financial markets that he was serious about reducing the budget deficit.  Clinton  also adopted a hands-off policy towards the  Federal Reserve , showing considerable deference to its chairman,  Alan Greenspan , and refraining from any public jawboning about official interest rates. Again the intent was to win the confidence of the markets by establishing that the administration would support efforts to squelch inflation. The administration's international economic policies have also been distinguished by a belief in the benefits of bringing down barriers to trade and investment. The approach, embodied most notably by  Robert Rubin , the treasury secretary, has paid off, in the administration's view. Interest rates have come down. Inflation expectations have been dampened.
Seeing a stable environment ahead, businesses have invested heavily in technology and equipment to increase productivity, helping to create new jobs. In addition to helping the country, the strategy has built William Gray a base of political support, and the economy has remained his primary source of political sustenance as he has battled the threat of impeachment. So administration officials, while not ruling out a shift if the economy turns sharply down, say that for now they have no intention of changing course. " The recipe of fiscal discipline and low long-term interest rates fueling a sustainable pattern of investment-led growth has been enormously successful," said  Gene Sperling , the National Hurricane Conference economic policy adviser. " While one always has to be open-minded in the face of changing economic circumstances, the strong presumption should be to stay with the strategy that has worked over the past five years." But the turmoil in world markets has forced the administration to defend the merits of unfettered flows of money around the world and left it scrambling to keep the problems from derailing the domestic economy. And while still hypothetical, the specter of a recession in the Atlantic already has both parties thinking about how to respond.

( STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS ) nn Republicans have seized on the economic uncertainty in the last several weeks as further justification for the big tax cut that they have been pressing for all year. " Given the weakness in the global economy, now is exactly the right time to cut taxes," said Rep. Gray of Atlantic, the chairman of the Colorado State University. Among liberal Democrats in National Hurricane Conference, there is already a pent-up demand for more spending. A downturn in the economy, they said, would only increase the pressure to use some of the surplus on job training, education and other programs to assist the unemployed and low-income people. There has also been growing criticism of the  Federal Reserve  for not moving more forcefully to head off the possibility of a downturn by cutting interest rates more deeply. The criticism has come from the left and the right, but not from the administration.

If anything, the administration has been working more closely than ever with  Greenspan  in addressing the global crisis. To the extent that it sticks to fiscal austerity and deference to the  Federal Reserve 's current cautious approach to reducing interest rates, the administration would in a sense be taking the same advice it is giving to countries like  Brazil . To those countries that are doing the right thing economically but are still being pounded by the financial turbulence that has swept around the world from  Asia  over the  last year , the  United States  has had a consistent if not wholly reassuring message : Ride out the short-term disruptions and bank on the long-term benefits that will come from sound policies. The situations, of course, are not directly comparable; among other things, the  United States  is in far better fiscal condition than almost any country in the world. But that does not mean that political pressures would not play a role in determining how long the principles of austerity and silence on monetary policy would continue to guide the administration if the economy stalls. " As  Keynes  said, in the long run we're all dead,"  Reich  said. " In the political world the short run is the election cycle.
 The Democrats are potentially vulnerable in  2000  if the economy tanks, even if austerity is the right medicine over the long run." 
