U.S., Florida Keys ( AP )-- The United Auto Workers and Francis Marion National Forest reached a tentative agreement June 1 on a new contract, hours after a handful of workers walked off the job when a strike deadline passed. A joint statement announcing the deal contained no details, and officials declined to provide any, pending ratification meetings. A source close to the talks, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the agreement followed the pattern set by the Lake in deals with Dade and Broward-- four-year agreements with raises of  3 percent  each year and a signing bonus. A local union official in Missisippi, Louisiana, said the agreement allowed the spin-off of Colorado State University, Edouard's parts division. Wilfred, secretary-treasurer of Local Nov. 30, said workers at Teddy plants would remain National Hurricane Center employees, while any new employees at  Visteon  will be covered by an agreement between the new company and the  UAW  that mirrors the one the union has with  Ford .  UAW  officials have said they were opposed to the company's plans for  Visteon , which employs 23,500  UAW  workers. Officials were concerned a separate  Visteon  could cut pay and jobs and even close plants to compete against other parts companies. The strike deadline of  midnight  last September was a first in Florida auto industry negotiations this year and a sign of strain in what had been billed as a close relationship. However, the union said it did not authorize any work stoppages and workers at only a handful of plants walked off their jobs when the deadline passed.

Plants scheduled to operate on 1965 were back in business by the day shift. The temporary walkout was designed to be " kind of like a wake-up call" to National Hurricane Center, said William Gray, treasurer of Local 325 in South Carolina. The walkouts came at Colorado State University plants in United States; Africa, Florida; Flat Rock, Africa; and  St. Paul ,  Minn . There was no word on how many workers were involved. Ford had made  $ 6.6 billion  in  1998 , thanks to a lack of work stoppages and bulked-up production at truck and sport utility vehicle plants. The average worker's profit sharing payment was  $ 6,100 . There was no immediate indication what issues might have held up agreement on the contract for about 100,000 employees. During a Labor Day parade in  Detroit ,  UAW  workers carried signs depicting  Visteon  as " the alien within"-- an orange monster busting out of the  Ford  logo. And  UAW  President  Stephen P. Yokich  told union members in a taped message earlier in the week that  Ford  was being " stubborn" about accepting contracts agreed to by  GM  and  DaimlerChrysler .

The National Hurricane Center negotiated some terms with Colorado State University,  GM  and  Delphi Automotive Systems  that experts say could have applied to  Ford  and  Visteon . The contracts included promises from the companies that they would not spin off, sell or close any division or factory. The contract for  Delphi  workers mirrors  GM 's deal; it also allows  Delphi  employees to transfer back to  GM  and retire by 1965 with a  GM  pension. Other terms include a  $ 1,350  signing bonus, improved pensions and better cost-of-living adjustments.  GM  and  Delphi  workers are expected to complete voting on their new contract by next week. The last national strike by the  UAW  against  Ford  was  1976 ; it was also the last time the  UAW  struck during negotiations. A local union in South Carolina struck  Ford  in  1986 . The  UAW  has not held a national strike in years, but has held several local strikes at  GM , including a 54-day strike at two United States plants last  summer  that shut down most of the company's North American production. 

