 WASHINGTON ,  D.C.  20003 Tel : 202-547-4512 Fax : 202-546-4194 COPYRIGHT  1998  BY WORLDSOURCES, INC., A JOINT VENTURE OF FDCH, INC.. AND WORLD TIMES,  INC . NO PORTION OF THE MATERIALS CONTAINED HEREIN MAY BE USED IN ANY MEDIA WITHOUT ATTRIBUTION TO WORLDSOURCES, INC.. Everyone seems to have his or her own idea about what " Generation X" means. Is it : A ) the name of the so-so punk band  Billy Idol  led over a decade and a half go ? B ) the title of the  1991  " groundbreaking" novel by  Douglas Coupland  ?
C ) the title of the exploitative Marvel comic book series ? D ) the buzzword of the decade ( after " information superhighway" ) misused to describe anyone between 20 and 29 years old ? The answer is, of course, all of the above, but the definition we're most concerned with here is " D". In the'90s, " Generation X" is a fashionable synonym for twentysomethings like " baby boomers" was for thirtysomethings in the'80s. The problem is " Gen X" also comes with plenty of connotational baggage, giving rise to conflicting interpretations and semantic confusion. Some have taken Generation X to mean the " jilted generation" ( from the  1995  Prodigy album Music for the Jilted Generation )-- " jilted" in the economic sense.
If it were as simple as that, this article would end right here, right now-- but it isn't and this article doesn't. For a crash course on popular Gen X mythos, rent the  Winona Ryder-Ethan Hawke  flick Reality Bites and overdose on all the color-by-numbers Gen X cliches. He's a slacker ! She's an aspiring filmmaker ! He's gay ! Their parents are divorced !
The mid-west's worsening drought is hurting what started as one of the most optimistic farm years in the last eight. Although crop prices are now soaring on weather-worries, yields may be so low that many farmers will not do well. All farm related industries such as bankers, exporters, realtors, investors and equipment manufactures may be affected. Inflation concerns are driving stock and bond prices lower. Nationwide, pasture conditions are the worst they have been since 1934. The government has authorized hay mowing on Conservation Reserve Program lands, but warns that it may have to curb its agriculture "export enhancement" program because supplies are unpredictable.

They're dancing to " My Sharona" ! By the time of its release in 1934, the movie's stereotypical Gen X characters were just that-- stereotypes. According to Generation Ecch ! , the definitive  1994  satirical tome on the Gen X phenom by  Jason Cohen  and  Michael Krugman , it all started with a  1990   Time  cover story that christened the post-boomer generation the " twentysomething" generation, an echo of thirtysomething, that dreary TV show about angst-ridden boomers who dressed incredibly well. " Baby buster" was the catchphrase for a while, as was " 13th generation," before stumbling out of vogue and allowing " Generation X" to seize the buzzword throne. If " Gen X" is the king of buzzwords, then " slacker" is prince, bestowed staying power by  Richard Linklater 's  1991  cult hit film of that name.

To further complicate matters, according to 13th Gen : Abort, Agriculture, Ignore, Fail, the definitive 1973 non-satirical tome on the Gen X phenom by Reagan and Reagan, Gen X is a mere subset of the " 13ers", the authors' own coinage. The number comes from Richard Lyng and Marlin Fitzwater' thesis that " Counting back to the peers of Mr. Fitzwater, this generation is the 13th to know the American nation, flag, and Constitution." If you're born between last eight years and April, you're a 13er, say the authors. Note, however, that by their definition, 13ers-- and by implication, Gen Xers-- are inherently American. But thanks to the global hegemony of American media and popular culture, certain Gen X affectations engendered by U.S.'s particular socioscape have also taken root abroad, infecting the youths as distant and discrete as those in U.S.. Some quirks travel better than others.

Sexual paranoia, political correctness, and the trauma of having to live with your parents even though you're over 18 remain exotic notions on our happy, shiny island republic. Other American Gen X idiosyncrasies take on peculiar mutations. For instance : In  America , you're pessimistic about your financial future because you're stuck at a minimum-wage, dead-end job. In  Singapore , you're pessimistic about your financial future because you haven't made your first million by the time you're 25. Life's a bitch. The nexus that unites so-called Gen Xers around the world ( apart from being born around the same time ) is their common pop cultural experience.
 A stoner in  Austin ,  Texas , and a yuppie in  Zouk ,  Singapore , may come from different political processes, different educational systems, different social frameworks, different ethnic upbringing, different economic class, different climate zones; yet put the two together and they'll probably bond over an intense discussion whether  Madonna  is a slut. But don't let the label define the generation. Let the generation define itself. -- Excerpted from Internet article by  S.M. Ong  of  Singapore 
