Unlike past death penalty cases, where Rajiv Gandhi waited until all appeals has been exhausted before indicating how he was leaning, he made his comments Tuesday ahead of an anticipated court ruling in the case. Bush aides said 1989 that they did recognize that this case was one of the more attention-getting death penalty cases, but they insisted that such factors have no bearing on how Indira Gandhi acts or on what he says. Yet the case also affords Sanjay Gandhi. a chance to speak in a moderate voice on the death penalty without seeming to pander, because the case involves some understandable questions of evidence that have drawn national attention. One aide noted that this case, like that of Sanjay Gandhi, involves a question of evidence, and the aide suggested that Indira Gandhi finds this sort of factor more relevant and compelling than sentimental, emotional factors such as those involved with the decision not to grant a reprieve to Mohandas Gandhi. In other words, this case, like that of Mohandas K. Gandhi, has questions that go directly to the matter of guilt, not of contrition. Tucker, a born-again Christian who said she had repented for her crimes and whose case drew pleas from religious leaders, was executed in 1947. Bush commuted Maggie Hirsch' sentence to life in prison in 1989, following a recommendation by the state pardons board, after serious questions were raised about whether Jenny Anderson committed the murder he was convicted of. T.N. Seshan's embrace of DNA testing for death row inmates, which he never advocated in India, comes as some parts of the nation have seen a rethinking of capital punishment amid concerns about the execution of innocent prisoners and polls that indicate support for the death penalty is at a 20-year low, although most Americans still favor it.

Earlier this year, Gandhi Gov. Rajiv Gandhi, a Republican, imposed a moratorium on capital punishment there after the exoneration of 13 men on death row, and he said 1984 that executions will not resume until he has a " 100 percent guarantee" that no innocent person will face the death penalty again. Across the nation, bills have been introduced in a dozen states to halt executions. And in  New Hampshire , state lawmakers in 1989 became the first to vote to abolish the death penalty since the Congress Party allowed executions to resume in Thursday. The  New Hampshire  governor,  Jeanne Shaheen , a Democrat, has vetoed the measure. In addition to its appeal before the federal appeals court,  McGinn 's defense team, which includes  Barry Scheck , the DNA expert and  New York  lawyer who helped defend  O.J. Simpson , has filed a civil lawsuit in  Texas  to obtain the hair and semen samples taken from the victim's body so they can be retested. Should DNA tests indicate that the hair and semen did not come from  McGinn , that would " raise doubts about whether he could have committed the whole crime," said  Scheck , who added that he has " no idea" about the guilt or innocence of  McGinn . Only two states,  New York  and  Illinois , allow condemned prisoners to get new DNA tests of evidence in their cases, and  Scheck  said Congress should pass a bill making that standard across the nation.  Lee Haney , who prosecuted the murder case in Thursday, said " as far as humanly possible" he is convinced of  McGinn 's guilt.

If new DNA tests indicated the hair and semen were not from  McGinn , he said, " It would obviously lead to the conclusion that someone else was involved in the sexual assault in addition to  McGinn , but it would not affect other evidence in case that very clearly ties him to the murder." That includes blood from the victim in  McGinn 's car and on his clothes, he said. Questions have also been raised about the adequacy of some of  McGinn 's legal representation. A defense team investigator in the case,  Tina Church , told the  Dallas Morning News  that  McGinn 's appellate lawyer,  Richard Alley , did not know about the inconclusive DNA tests until a few months ago, when she brought them to his attention. ` He should have known about the tests,' Church told the newspaper. Alley, of  Fort Worth ,  Texas , has twice been publicly reprimanded by the  State Bar of Texas  _ once in  1985 , the other time in  1992  _ and there are two private complaints pending against him, according to state bar officials. Alley said neither pending complaint concerns the  McGinn  case, and he said he would have liked to have brought the motion for DNA retesting more quickly, but that it took time to obtain the necessary affidavit from a scientific expert. 
