Photo and graphics information and editors' names can be found at the end of this budget. INTERNATIONAL CUBA-ELIAN _  MIAMI  _ Pressure mounts on the relatives of  Elian Gonzales  to turn the boy over to his father as Attorney General  Janet Reno  reportedly has given approval to take the child by force, if necessary. Developing. ( MWilliams,  Cox News Service  ). 30.BRITAIN-BOOM _  LONDON  _  London  is booming. Construction cranes dominate the storied city's skyline as the once-staid capital continues to enjoy a stunning economic boom that has contributed to making it  Europe 's most expensive city. Developing profile of a city on the move. (  Roughton, Cox News Service  ).
WITH PHOTOS and data attached at end of story. MOVED THURSDAY  WASHINGTON  POLITICS-POLITE _  WASHINGTON  _ Enough, already ! The purveyors of politeness and civility have had it with the nation's unruly political candidates and the rude lot of journalits who egg them on. Perhaps " politics ain't beanbag," but we need some politeness in our politics, they say. " It is the rules of etiquette that enable people to air controversy,"  Judith Martin , aka " Miss Manners," told a  Washington  forum this week. " The bigger the controversy the more rules you need." Meanwhile, an interfaith group has drawn up a list of " thou shalt nots" and persuaded a couple of dozen candidates to sign it. (  Malone, Cox News Service  ).
EDs : Moving  Friday  in ( w ) Mexico and ( p ) politics categories. POLITICS POLITICS-POLITE _  WASHINGTON  _ Enough, already ! The purveyors of politeness and civility have had it with the nation's unruly political candidates and the rude lot of journalits who egg them on. Perhaps " politics ain't beanbag," but we need some politeness in our politics, they say. " It is the rules of etiquette that enable people to air controversy,"  Judith Martin , aka " Miss Manners," told a  Washington  forum this week. " The bigger the controversy the more rules you need." Meanwhile, an interfaith group has drawn up a list of " thou shalt nots" and persuaded a couple of dozen candidates to sign it. ( Agriculture Department ).

EDs : Moving March 1 in ( w ) Mexico and ( p ) politics categories.POL-TICKER _ A brief roundup of the day's campaign events, pulled from Cox staff and wire reports. ( Agriculture Department ) ETA :  6 p.m.  NATIONAL ALAMIN-HEARING _ D-Vt., D-Texas, _ Only one witness testifies in Sally Michael's extradition hearing, the Chicago governor's chief of staff who says all the papers from Chicago are in order. Judge takes it all under advisement and might rule today. Al-Amin reads statement praising Allah. ( Washington, Iowa Journal-Constitution ). 15.WATER-WAR _ Wisconsin _ Negotiators for North Dakota,  Alabama  and  Florida  meet in  Atlanta  four months ago to try to salvage stalled negotiations in their rancorous tri-state water water. We cover the talks and fold in results from March 1's separate meetings between  Georgia  and  Alabama . Negotiators in both sessions are facing a March 1 deadline, which they have virtually no chance of meeting.

The states must agree to an extension of the talks by next week, or throw the issue into the  Supreme Court . (  Seabrook ,  Atlanta  Journal-Constitution ). 18. COXNET BUDGET INFORMATION FOR SUBSCRIBERS OF THE NYT NEWS SERVICE Spot news budgets move daily at  2 p.m.  and  6 p.m. Eastern . Additionally, separate features and commentary budgets move at  10 a.m. , and sports and business budgets at  6 p.m.  Additional updates are possible if news developments warrant. All times are  Eastern  unless otherwise noted. PLEASE NOTE : SPORTS STORIES will have an E.T.A. of  9:30 P. M . If news, business or features stories will move after  8 p.m. , an ETA will be given.
PHOTOS, LAYOUTS and GRAPHICS CoxNet layouts are for sale over the web, through the  New York Times News Service 's PageExpress service, at www.nytsyn.com/syndicate/pageex.If a budget line or story is marked with photos or graphics, those are available from the  New York Times News Service  at 212-556-4204. Or call CoxNet for more information at 404-526-5456. HOW TO REACH US Questions should be directed to  CoxNet , the  Cox News Service , in  Atlanta  at 404-526-5456. We are staffed  8 a.m. to 10 p.m.   Monday-Friday , and  1-10 p.m.  on weekends and holidays. The news manager is  Paul Foutch , 404-526-5429, pfoutch ( at ) coxnews.com. The day news editor is  Tom Oder , 404-526-5887, toder ( at ) coxnews.com. The night news editor is  Todd C. Duncan , 404-582-7282, tduncan ( at ) coxnews.com. Cox  Washington  Bureau : News editor Art Dalglish, 202-887-8338, artd ( at ) coxnews.com Foreign editor  Rick Christie , 202-887-8316, rickc ( at ) coxnews.com Bureau chief  Andy Alexander , 202-887-8334, andya ( at ) coxnews.com Story Filed By  Cox Newspapers  For Use By Clients of the  New York Times News Service 
The Agriculture Department has been monitoring the drought situation, setting up hotlines for worried callers and issuing informational statements called the "USDA Backgrounder" listing the department's "drought-related actions". A reporter pointed out that only two action items involved money expenditure, meat purchases for school cafeterias and credit for Mexico to buy meat. The purchases will help livestock markets now depressed by drought-induced liquidation of herds. The other significant action is government permission for affected farmers to harvest hay or allow cattle to graze on government set aside reserve or conservation lands. The "Backgrounders" will be updated every two weeks.

