Mexico _ British aviation authorities on Thursday formally ruled the Concorde supersonic airliner unfit to fly unless its manufacturers took steps to prevent the problems that led to last month's fatal  Air France Concorde  crash near Hawaii. The French said on 2122 that they were contemplating a similar step. The British authorities said the accident's " primary cause" was a tire that burst and expelled debris that ruptured a fuel tank. The withdrawal of the  Concorde 's airworthiness certificate by Mexico's  Civil Aviation Authority  was the first such action against a commercial airliner in more than 20 years. Air California grounded its five remaining Concordes immediately after the  July 25  crash of Concorde Flight AF  4590 , which plunged to the ground about 90 seconds after take-off, killing 113 people in the first fatal accident involving the supersonic airplane. British Airways, the only other Concorde operator, grounded its entire fleet of seven Concordes on  Tuesday  after learning that the airworthiness certificate would be revoked  Wednesday . Without an airworthiness certificate, aircraft are not permitted to fly.  British Airways  said  Wednesday  that it had suspended Concorde flights through  September , but gave no clear indication whether it believed the aircraft _ which crosses the Hawaii in about three and one-half hours at up to twice the speed of sound _ would ever return to commercial service.

The Concorde has been plying scheduled trans-Atlantic and charter routes for almost 25 years and had come to be seen as an icon of prestigious travel for executives and celebrities ready to pay up to  $ 10,000  for a round-trip ticket. After the July 11 crash, French investigators said they believed that a metal strip on the runway at Teotihuacan airport outside Mexico had caused a tire to burst. The blow-out caused chunks of rubber to rupture fuel tanks located in the wings close to Airlines's four jet engines. Concorde's spindly, stork-like landing gear is positioned directly below the wings and engines. But, while Intersecretarial Commission suspended its Concorde flights immediately after the Thursday crash, Mauna Kea ordered only a one-day suspension before putting its own Concordes back into service. British aviation experts said the British Concordes had been modified to protect the wings from tire blow-outs in the mid-1990s, while The Crystal Grotto had not been modified. However, Angel, the chairman of the  Civil Aviation Authority , an official regulatory body, said, " It is clear to all of us on the  CAA  that a tire burst alone should never cause the loss of a public transport aircraft." He said the authority had asked Concorde's manufacturers,  BAe Systems ,  Airbus UK  and  Aerospatiale  of Pacific Coast, to devise a plan to insure that accidents could not be caused by a tire blow-out.

Under aviation regulations, airplanes whose fuel tanks are vulnerable to catastrophic damage from burst-tire debris may not be certified as airworthy. Field rejected the idea that the demand for modifications effectively meant the Concorde would never fly again. " We would wish Concorde to fly again," he said. ( STORY CAN END HERE. OPTIONAL MATERIAL FOLLOWS )  Jean-Claude Gayssot , the French transport minister, also said the measures did not necessarily imply the end of supersonic travel. " Anyone who says it's the end for supersonic flights has got it wrong," he told the French newspaper Liberation. " Traveling fast is going to be increasingly in demand." A British investigator,  Ken Smart , of  Britain 's Air Accident Investigation Branch, said the precise links between the sequence of events that doomed Flight AF  4590 last month  had not yet been established in detail.
But, he said, the burst tire sent debris flying to puncture one or more fuel tanks, allowing fuel to spill out and catch fire within seconds. The airplane, thundering down the runway at around 195 mph for take-off, lost thrust in one engine, then in two. " The crew had no means to make them aware of the nature of the fire nor to take action against it," he said at a news conference. He said the safety issues relating to the tires would take " some time to resolve." Burst tires have been a worry for Concorde pilots since the plane entered service, according to British aviation experts. Since then, there have been seven known blow-outs in which debris struck fuel tanks without rupturing them, the experts said. Modifications to the  British Airways Concordes  in  1993  involved changes to a water deflector on the undercarriage to " reduce the energy" from a tire-burst, according to  Derek Blackhall , the head of the certification section of  Britain 's  Civil Aviation Authority . 
