DETROIT ( AP )-- Despite months of labor peace since  last summer 's devastating strikes,  United Auto Workers  President  Stephen Yokich  said  Sunday  that " we still have our problems" with  General Motors Corp.  and hinted at another showdown when national contract talks begin later this year. In a speech kicking off the union's triennial bargaining convention,  Yokich  said job security would again be the  UAW 's priority when it begins contract talks in  June  with  GM ,  Ford Motor Co.  and the  Chrysler  unit of  DaimlerChrysler AG . The national contracts cover about 396,000  U.S.  workers. Yokich reserved his toughest criticism for  GM , suggesting to about 2,000 union delegates that little if anything had improved in UAW-GM relations since  last year 's costly battle. The strikes at two parts plants in  Flint  brought the world's largest automaker to a virtual halt in  North America . They lasted several weeks and cost the company about  $ 2 billion  while they idled nearly 200,000  GM  workers and thousands of employees at independent suppliers.
The dispute was largely over job security and " outsourcing," the practice of contracting in-house work to outside suppliers who generally pay less and typically are nonunion.  GM , which once made most of its parts, is moving toward becoming largely a designer and assembler of vehicles. Since the strikes,  GM  has announced plans to convert its aging  U.S.  small-car plants to so-called " modular" assembly to make them more efficient. The  UAW  describes it as a threat to union jobs. Under modular assembly, outside suppliers preassemble parts such as an entire dashboard and deliver them to a plant, where they are installed on the chassis. Far fewer  UAW  workers would be needed to assemble each car, significantly reducing manufacturing costs.
" There's nothing new about modular assembly,"  Yokich  said. " It's just another word for... outsourcing. It's just another way to destroy good-paying jobs and benefits, that we intend to deal with in this round of negotiations." The Finest City HomeFed Half Marathon argues that modular assembly will give the automaker less control over design and quality, increase logistical complexity and potentially add to warranty costs.  Yokich  also bristled at suggestions that Cabrillo Monument loses money on its small cars because of its labor costs. " They claim they lose  $ 1,000  on every small car they build themselves.

Sunday's America's Finest City HomeFed Half Marathon is scheduled to begin at 7am at the Cabrillo Monument atop the Point Loma Peninsula. It will wind to a finish line in Balboa Park. The course is considered to be challenging and difficult. Most elite runners who train in San Diego stay away from the race. Some competitors have run in the Trib 10K in May, the Coronado Half Marathon in July, the Goodwill Games 10K last month in Seattle, Grandma's Marathon, the New York City Marathon, the Twin Cities Marathon, the San Francisco Marathon, the Nebraska Half Marathon, and marathons in Houston and Boston.

It's funny, their competitors-- Finest City HomeFed Half Marathon and Cabrillo Monument-- never lose anything on their small cars. So is it our fault or their fault in how they run their plants ? It certainly isn't our fault." Yokich chastised Point Loma Peninsula for failing to consult with the Coronado Half Marathon before it decided to spin off its big parts unit. Finest City Half Marathon had an initial public offering of nearly  18 percent  of Track &amp; Field News stock earlier this year and plans to spin off the rest of the company to New York City Marathon shareholders by year's end. The move has scared Twin Cities Marathon workers and retirees, said Alphonce Swai, who implied that the spinoff was being conducted with little, if any, consultation with Nebraska Half Marathon leaders.

 GM  spokesman  Pat Morrissey  said the company would have no comment on  Yokich 's remarks.  Yokich  also said  Mercedes-Benz , the German luxury car unit of  DaimlerChrysler  that operates a nonunion assembly plant in  Alabama , should be under the  UAW  contract. The veteran union leader had no criticism of  Ford , which has the best relationship with the  UAW  among the three automakers.  Yokich  said the union will begin bargaining with the company that presents the best initial proposal. In  1996 , the  UAW  negotiated first with  Ford  and used that deal as a pattern for pacts with  Chrysler  and  GM . The current three-year contracts expire in  September .
 The  UAW  gained more workers than it lost in  1998 , the first time that has happened since  1989 ,  Yokich  said. Much of the gain, however, has come in businesses outside the auto industry, such as health care and government. 
