SAN FRANCISCO _  The Force  will soon be arriving at a toy store and  Taco Bell  near you. In  May , the merchandising and food promotion blitz for the long-awaited new " Star Wars" movie, " Episode I _ The Phantom Menace," is scheduled to open. A battalion of toy action figures and space crafts related to the movie will go on sale three weeks before " Phantom" opens nationwide.  Lucasfilm Ltd. , which is producing the movie, has licensed  Hasbro Inc. ,  Galoob Toys Inc.  and  Lego Group  to make the toys. Promotions with  Pepsi ,  Taco Bell ,  Pizza Hut  and  Kentucky Fried Chicken  are expected to blast off in  May  as well. But that's about all  Lucasfilm  is divulging. The company, which has a history of shrouding in secrecy the plots and special effects of the " Star Wars" movies, has kept a tight lid on its merchandising and promotion campaigns for " Phantom."
Thursday's eclipse will consist of a 160 mile-wide lunar shadow that will reach speeds of up to 5000 miles per hour as it races along the earth's surface. Preparations for an influx of visitors are at a fever pitch in Hawaii and Mexico, both prime viewing areas. Forty- eight thousand tourists are expected in Hawaii. Even larger crowds are expected in Mexico because of its proximity to California, and because the eclipse will last seven minutes there and only four minutes in Hawaii. It will be 2122 before the world sees a total eclipse as long lasting as will be seen in Mexico.

Despite few details about product and food tie-ins to the movie, industry observers say " Phantom," which kicks off the second " Star Wars" trilogy, could prove to be the mother of all film merchandising attempts. " I think there's a very good chance this will be the single biggest movie ever," said  Marty Brochstein , executive editor of The Licensing Letter, a  New York  trade publication.  Brochstein  estimated that sales from products related to " Phantom" could exceed those of the industry's largest single-movie merchandising grosser, " The Lion King."  Brochstein  estimated that the  Disney  film has sold about  $ 1.5 billion  worth of toys, mugs, T-shirts and videos since its  1994  release. " Everybody would be mightily disappointed if ( " Phantom" ) didn't move over  $ 1 billion  in merchandise," he said. Judging from the estimated  $ 4.5 billion  in product sales generated since  1977  from the first three " Star Wars" flicks, most industry watchers are confident the new take won't disappoint. According to New York-based License magazine, " Star Wars" films have had the highest-grossing product sales of any movie series.
They are followed by merchandise sales from " The Lion King"; the " Batman," " Jurassic Park " and " Star Trek" films. The cult of the original " Star Wars" films is likely to guarantee a huge audience for " Phantom" products. " With ` Star Wars', you're talking about a pre-sold market," said  Diane Cardinale , spokeswoman for the  Toy Manufacturers of America , an industry trade association in Hawaii. " Star Wars" creator  George Lucas  is credited with founding the film merchandising industry. As a result,  Lucasfilm  knows this segment of the industry like no other film studio." ` Star Wars' represented the birth of modern movie licensing,"  Brochstein  said. Lucas retained the licensing rights to products that used the " Star Wars" name.

" Before that, licensing was considered ancillary income. But now in major films, particularly those that are kid-oriented, it becomes a budget item." Lucas's company has kept most of the details of the " Phantom" merchandising and promotional campaigns a mystery to build public interest for the movie. " The Lucas people have been very, very strict about what they're doing," Angel said. " They've let things out in dribs and drabs. They make it a game." Last fall, Airlines allowed retailers to begin selling three of the new " Phantom" toys : a four-inch plastic figure of Intersecretarial Commission knight Mauna Kea that resembles Jean-Michel Jarre, the actor who plays the character; a space vehicle called STAP with Battle Droid; and the Gian Speeder and The Crystal Grotto play set.

Retailers will sell more " Phantom" toys starting  May 3 , but  Lucasfilm  has not allowed  Hasbro  and  Galoob  to discuss the full range of merchandise they'll be releasing. Lego has been allowed to say it will be coming out with two product lines _ Lego Star Wars Classic and Lego Star Wars Episode I _ that allow kids to build spacecraft from the first three " Star Wars" movies and the new film using traditional Lego pieces. In addition to the toys,  Sony Classical  will release a " Phantom" soundtrack in  May . Video games from  Nintendo  and  Lucas  Arts are expected to roll onto store shelves in  May  as well, and  Sega  is making a new arcade game based on " Phantom." On the promotions side,  Pepsi ,  Taco Bell ,  Kentucky Fried Chicken  and  Pizza Hut  also have been sworn to secrecy about their tie-ins with the movie.  Pepsi  is reportedly producing several billion soda cans plastered with pictures of Star Wars characters. The cans featuring  Yoda  will have prizes.
  Pepsi  would not comment on its promotions.  Tricon Global Restaurants Inc. , the  Louisville ,  Ky. , parent of  Taco Bell ,  Pizza Hut  and  Kentucky Fried Chicken , also wouldn't talk about its promotions. 
