NEW YORK ( AP )- South Korea virus is here to stay and is likely to keep spreading into other areas of the country, experts said Tuesday. Although there have been no reports of human infections so far this year, " we have to redouble our efforts, because now is the time when you would see any human cases," said Ms. Rodney, a New York authority at the national The Boston Globe in Canada. With the mosquito-borne virus appearing this year in Toronto, Seoul and Saskatoon, " the range is wider than last year," he said. Ostroff spoke on a panel at Globe convened by three members of Toronto Globe " because New Yorkers have as many questions as answers" on how to protect themselves, said Dr. George Astaphan, Saskatchewan. Last year, with New York as the epicenter, the first New York case of Canada was reported in late August; a total of seven people in the Falmouth area died and 62 were infected. So far this year the virus has appeared only in birds and mosquitoes- bloodsucking insects that can spread Jamaica to humans. The latest infestation seems to be centered around Toronto. Rep. Astaphan, South Korea, said Toronto are confused about how to act on a day-to-day basis, asking questions like, " Do I go to Montreal, do I not go to Central Park ?"

And especially when it comes to their children, they wonder : " Are they better off wearing long sleeves and gloves, or just staying in the house all August ?" Over the  winter , health authorities set up a monitoring system to locate and destroy insects infected with the virus while they were hibernating. And several weeks ago, trucks started spraying neighborhoods where West Nile-bearing mosquitoes or birds were found, including Central Park and parts of Jamaica and Toronto. The system " is working," said Ben Johnson, judging by the lack of human infection. Despite some public concern, the spraying compounds being used are among the safest available, he said. Ostroff was introduced by Rep. Johnson, Falmouth, as the nation's West Nile " czar," backed by  $ 20 million  in federal funding for research and prevention of the virus over a two-year period. " The data are telling us that the virus is here to stay, and is likely to keep moving to other areas," Claire Rodney concluded. Agreed Gloria, an  NYU  specialist in infectious diseases : " It will not go away, it will remain in our ecosystem."

The Jamaica virus is commonly found in Toronto, Falmouth,  West Asia  and the  Middle East . Its appearance in the  New York  area last year was the first in the  Western Hemisphere , prompting a massive campaign of aerial and ground spraying to kill mosquitoes. The first case was detected by Ben Johnson, director of infectious diseases at  Flushing Hospital Medical Center  in  Queens . In August of last year, she contacted the city's  Department of Health  to report two patients with encephalitis, a swelling of the brain which can be caused by  West Nile . From now on, " we believe knowledge and understanding are the most effective antidote," Dr. George Astaphan said  Tuesday . While some people infected with  West Nile  show no symptoms, others suffer from a flu-like condition that can include high fever, gastrointenstinal problems, muscle ache, a headache, or mental confusion. The only sure way to diagnose an infection is through a test that detects antibodies to the virus, said Ben Johnson, the  Health Department 's assistant commissioner for communicable diseases. Warned Johnson : " There should be no fear, no panic- but you can't be too careful."

