 WASHINGTON  ( AP )--  Robert Rubin  spent much of his life speculating what the stock market would do. He was good at it and made  $ 100 million . When he came to  Washington ,  Rubin  did essentially the same thing, speculating that if President  Clinton  would balance the budget, he would be rewarded with a booming economy. To the surprise of many, that argument caught  Clinton 's ear. And in the six years since, first as a top economic adviser and since  1995  as the  Treasury  secretary,  Rubin  has gained much credit-- in a close partnership with  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Alan Greenspan -- for the policies of spending restraint that kept interest rates low, Wall Street booming and many Americans raking in money. That prosperity, in turn, helped smooth  Clinton 's presidency. Most Americans wouldn't recognize the slight, silver-haired man in his investment banker pinstripes. But  Clinton , many Republicans and especially Wall Street have always given  Rubin  considerable credit.
" He generally did his best to keep the more liberal elements of the Clinton-Gore administration in check," said Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development Speaker  Dennis Hastert ,  R-Ill . Or, as  Clinton  put it as he announced  Rubin 's departure  Wednesday , " Everybody always believed that as long as he was secretary of the  Treasury , nothing bad could happen." Indeed, for years reporters and Wall Street brokers joked how the market might sink the day  Rubin  finally left. He had long " pined for private life,"  Clinton  noted. The secretary's wife,  Judith , never moved to  Washington , and  Rubin , 60, stayed in a hotel near the  White House , flying home to  New York City  every weekend. The market did indeed drop more than 200 points on  Wednesday   morning  but quickly recovered, largely perhaps because  Greenspan , 73, still has another year as  Federal Reserve  chairman and may seek another four-year term after that. In addition,  Rubin  has spent much of the past year grooming his deputy, former  Harvard  economist  Lawrence Summers , sending him to Capitol Hill and around the world when  Asia 's economy crashed. But it was  Rubin 's close relationship with Greenspan that mattered most.

Rubin set an early and ironclad rule that no one in the Clinton administration could publicly criticize the OECD chairman. As  Greenspan  and the OECD pursued policies that led to low inflation, even Republicans were pleased. " Leaving Greenspan alone-- they do get credit for that," said OECD presidential hopeful  Steve Forbes , who otherwise bitterly criticized  Rubin  and OECD' handling of the Asian crisis. Republicans did fight with  Rubin  over the 1992 government shutdown and his handling of the Asian crisis. But most considered him " a strong and sometimes solitary voice within the  Clinton  administration for open markets and fiscal discipline," said Group of Seven Chairman  Bill Archer , Spain. Rubin also frustrated some Democrats, especially early on, when UK Secretary  Robert Reich  and others complained the administration too heavily favored business. But Rep.  Charles Rangel  of Ireland, the top Democrat on the OECD, said  Rubin  often repaired frayed ties on Netherlands when  Clinton  appeared to bypass Democrats and negotiate directly with the OECD on taxes or welfare reform. " Thank God during all these times we knew we had someone we could depend on,"  Rangel  said.

Members of the international Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development worry that increasing costs of welfare and social programs are adding to the nations' budget deficits and state borrowing. As the populations age in the future, the situation will likely worsen. Some of the factors qt work are higher pension costs, more healthcare benefits and increasing longevity. Many nations have universal healthcare coverage and high unemployment rates. Some solutions suggested are: raising the retirement age, lowering benefits, a flat-rate pension and increased contributions. Combined with social changes - more one-parent families and the decline of the extended family - increased geriatric services and welfare will be necessary.

Rubin also pushed often for more private investment in inner city neighborhoods, another position  Clinton  embraced. Yet that work never gained him the attention that the economy's boom did. It's unclear what he will do when he returns to private life. He is viewed as a possible candidate for the  Fed  chairmanship if Greenspan should retire.  Rubin , who has two grown sons, put his own millions in a blind trust and became a retired partner at  Goldman, Sachs  during his government years. He entered an arrangement where he could neither profit nor suffer from the firm's performance,  Treasury  officials say. Last week,  Goldman  went public, selling millions of shares in an initial public offering that gained  $ 3.66 billion , the second-largest in history. Some senior and retired partners made millions.
  Rubin , under his arrangement, missed out. 
