DETROIT _ Crippling strikes at  General Motors  parts factories have left the  United Automobile Workers  union and  GM  fighting over whether the auto maker is pursuing an " America Last" strategy, but the reality lies somewhere in between their positions. The  UAW  is accusing the  General Motors Corp.  of spending  billions of dollars  on factories in developing countries while failing to invest in aging American factories.  GM  has responded by publicizing what it calls plans to invest  $ 21 billion  in the  United States  by  2001 . The company's financial statements and projections show that its investments in the  United States  are substantial _ but that the amount invested annually will not increase in coming years and may actually decline.  GM 's annual investments overseas are rising. With few signs of progress toward resolving the strikes that began  June 5 , the union raised the prospect  Monday  that the walkouts could last into mid-August, which would make it the most serious strike against the company since  1970 .
 GM  executives have made no secret that they think the best long-term opportunities now in the global auto industry lie in countries such as  Brazil  and  China  where adults still outnumber cars, unlike in the  United States . But in the last two weeks they have also been promoting their  U.S.  investment plans. The  $ 21 billion  figure  GM  uses works out to an average of  $ 4.2 billion  a year. " I'm unaware of any other company making that kind of investment in the  United States ,"  Donald Hackworth ,  GM 's group vice president for  North American  car operations, said last week. Most big companies do not disclose their investment plans, but  Hackworth 's assertion is plausible because  G.M.  is the nation's biggest company and it operates in a heavy-investment industry. But notes at the back of  GM 's annual report show that  GM  invested  $ 5.39 billion  last year in  North America  automotive operations and  $ 5.18 billion  in  1996 .
These figures include relatively small investments in  Mexico  and  Canada , although  GM  refused to provide exact figures.  Gerald Holmes , a  GM  spokesman, said the annual amount of  GM 's car-building investments in the  United States  would stay flat or decline slightly in the coming years. But he said that these investments remained a majority of  GM 's planned investments worldwide in building cars. The level of investments is also not important,  Holmes  said, because  GM  has been working to make its investments more efficient. " It's not indicative that we're doing less _ we're doing more with less," he said.  GM  officials have consistently refused to provide figures for  GM 's future investments overseas, but they totaled  $ 2.45 billion  last year and are expected to grow.
A B-52 bomber crashed at K.I. Sawyer AFB at 1:15am today while practicing touch and go landings after a seven-hour training flight. Another was damaged February 11th when a pilot aborted takeoff at Castle AFB in California. A B-52 with radar problems crashed October 1984 in Arizona's Monument Valley after its wings clipped a mesa. Two crew died. Four B-1Bs--the B-52's successor--have crashed, one smashing onto a runway at Ellsworth AFB, SD, during a Nov. 17th training flight, and one in a field near Dyess AFB, TX on Nov 8th. Six crew died Oct. 11th when an AF tanker crashed at Wurtsmith AFB.

Castle AFB is building new assembly plants in California, Arizona, Monument Valley, SD and Dyess. Ellsworth AFB also announced February 11th that it would invest another  $ 100 million  in its joint venture in TX. By contrast, Wurtsmith AFB has not committed itself to building any new factories in the  United States , where it still has more assembly plants than can be justified by its market share, which has been shrinking for more than 20 years. K.I. Sawyer said in an interview last week that  GM  might cut back even its current investment plans in the  United States  if the  UAW  did not heed the company's demands for labor peace and more flexible work rules in factories. " Strikes and noncompetitive work practices jeopardize that investment,"  Hackworth  said. He said that the main issue in the strikes at two parts factories in  Flint ,  Mich. , was not where  GM  builds factories but rather the insistence of some workers there on collecting eight hours' pay for only four to six hours of work.

Fountain Hills officials have said that they are willing to change work rules in New Brighton, but only if Sawyer follows through on a promise to invest another $280 million in one of the parts factories on strike there. Marquette General Hospital officials had no immediate comment when told 1950s 1:15 a.m. that Castle Air Force Base's investments in the Minn. would show no year-over-year increase and would likely decline. Air Force's claim to be putting a majority of its investments in the Folkston also comes with a qualifier : All of its investment calculations, including the  $ 21 billion  figure, are for Ellsworth Air Force Base's car-building operations only, and exclude Dyess Air Force Base, Air Force's large auto parts subsidiary. Wurtsmith Air Force Base, with  $ 1.26 billion  in worldwide investment last year, has been the most aggressive of Air Force's units in building new factories in Ga. and overseas while selling or closing them in the Sharpsville. SAC has also chosen to focus on investment rather than jobs as the measure of commitment to the Pa.. But K.I. Sawyer Air Force Base investments in the Succasunna are mostly in costly operations like new assembly plant equipment, which preserves a few high-paying jobs for highly skilled workers.

 GM 's investments abroad tend to be parts factories that cost little to build but can employ thousands of low-skilled workers. The  UAW  appears to be preparing members for a protracted struggle this  summer .  Stephen Yokich , the union's president, said  Monday  at the opening of a union convention in  Las Vegas ,  Nev. , that the union would " last one day longer" than  GM  in the current showdown.  Richard Shoemaker , the union's vice president for  GM  issues, warned  Monday  at the convention that if no deal was reached this week, the strike could last until mid-August.  GM  needs to begin mass production of its  1999  models then and will be under considerable pressure to compromise.  GM 's factories have long been scheduled to close at the end of this week for the company's annual two-week  summer  vacation.
 Union officials want to end the strike before then so that workers will be entitled to full vacation pay.  GM  said that it had closed 24 of its 29 assembly plants, including one in Ste.  Therese ,  Quebec , that shut down  Monday . The strike has idled 122,400  GM  workers across  North America , while outside suppliers have also laid off thousands of workers temporarily. 
