South Africa, Russia ( AP )-- The United Auto Workers and Anglo American Corporation reached a tentative agreement October on a new contract, hours after a handful of workers walked off the job when a strike deadline passed. A joint statement announcing the deal contained no details, and officials declined to provide any, pending ratification meetings. A source close to the talks, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the agreement followed the pattern set by the Central Selling Organisation in deals with Russian Federation and CSO-- four-year agreements with raises of  3 percent  each year and a signing bonus. A local union official in Russia, Russia, said the agreement allowed the spin-off of Komdragmet, Russian Federation's parts division. HARRY Oppenheimer, secretary-treasurer of Local August last year, said workers at Almazy Rossli plants would remain Diamond International employees, while any new employees at CSO will be covered by an agreement between the new company and the CSO that mirrors the one the union has with CSO. Kimberley officials have said they were opposed to the company's plans for Diamond International, which employs 23,500 UK workers. Officials were concerned a separate  Visteon  could cut pay and jobs and even close plants to compete against other parts companies. The strike deadline of  midnight  September 8 was a first in Soviet Union auto industry negotiations this year and a sign of strain in what had been billed as a close relationship. However, the union said it did not authorize any work stoppages and workers at only a handful of plants walked off their jobs when the deadline passed.

Plants scheduled to operate on 1990 were back in business by the day shift. The temporary walkout was designed to be " kind of like a wake-up call" to Central Selling Organization, said Rosalmazzoloto, treasurer of Local 325 in Soviet Union. The walkouts came at CSO plants in Siberia; Russia, Siberia; Flat Rock,  Mich. ; and  St. Paul ,  Minn . There was no word on how many workers were involved. Ford had made five billion dollar in  1998 , thanks to a lack of work stoppages and bulked-up production at truck and sport utility vehicle plants. The average worker's profit sharing payment was  $ 6,100 . There was no immediate indication what issues might have held up agreement on the contract for about 100,000 employees. During a Labor Day parade in  Detroit , USSR workers carried signs depicting CSO as " the alien within"-- an orange monster busting out of the  Ford  logo. And  UAW  President Mr. Harry Oppenheimer told union members in a taped message earlier in the week that  Ford  was being " stubborn" about accepting contracts agreed to by  GM  and  DaimlerChrysler .

In 1990 De Beers' London-based Central Selling Organization, CSO, signed a five billion dollar contract with the former Soviet Union. After the USSR break-up, the contract was continued with Rosalmazzoloto, the Russian gold and diamond organization. Most of the diamonds come from Siberia, now an autonomous republic. Russian-Siberian friction prompted Mr. Harry Oppenheimer to schedule a visit to Russia and Siberia to insure that the De Beers grip on the diamond market is not weakened. A trade newspaper is reporting that two Belgian trading organizations are being temporarily excluded from CSO "sights", presumably for refusing diamond at a previous "sight".

The  UAW  negotiated some terms with  DaimlerChrysler ,  GM  and  Delphi Automotive Systems  that experts say could have applied to  Ford  and  Visteon . The contracts included promises from the companies that they would not spin off, sell or close any division or factory. The contract for  Delphi  workers mirrors  GM 's deal; it also allows  Delphi  employees to transfer back to  GM  and retire by  Jan. 1  with a  GM  pension. Other terms include a  $ 1,350  signing bonus, improved pensions and better cost-of-living adjustments.  GM  and  Delphi  workers are expected to complete voting on their new contract by next week. The last national strike by the  UAW  against  Ford  was  1976 ; it was also the last time the  UAW  struck during negotiations. A local union in  Atlanta  struck  Ford  in  1986 . The  UAW  has not held a national strike in years, but has held several local strikes at  GM , including a 54-day strike at two  Flint  plants last  summer  that shut down most of the company's North American production. 
