MIAMI _ As the city's streets settled into an uneasy calm, the battle over six-year-old Cuban rafter  Elian Gonzalez  moved to court  Friday  with the boy's  Miami  relatives hoping to overturn a decision by federal immigration officials to send him back to his father in  Cuba . The high-profile case also drew attention in  Washington , where Cuban-American members of  Congress  discussed strategies for keeping the boy here through legislative action, even as President  Clinton  confirmed his support for the decision that  Elian  should go back to  Cuba . " I believe they followed the law,"  Clinton  said of officials from the Immigration and  Naturalization Service , who ruled the boy belongs with his father. " This is a volatile and difficult case. ... We need to keep this out of the political process as much as possible." In  Miami , the biggest news for many residents was the absence of a new round of protests like the ones that hampered traffic around the city on  Thursday .
Carlos Pizzaro, the presidential candidate of the M-19 movement, was gunned down Thursday on a plane enroute from Bogota to Barranquilla. It is suspected that the assassin, who was killed immediately, was employed by the Medellin drug cartel. Pizzaro was the third presidential candidate to be killed in Columbia. The Patriotic Union Party candidate, Bernardo Jaramillo was assassinated 22 March. The government has refused a request to postpone the May 27 election. Senator Luis Carlos Galan, candidate of the Liberal Party was assassinated last August. Since then more than 250 Columbians have been killed by the drug traffickers.

Police arrested more than 100 people in those demonstrations, which temporarily blocked the street entrance to the Port of  Miami  and triggered some bloody scuffles between officers and protestors. Cuban exile leaders had called for people all over  Miami-Dade County  to drive at 15 mph  Friday  to tie up traffic. By late in the day, however, there were only a couple of reports of such actions, which police quickly quelled by pulling over and arresting the slow-moving drivers. Undaunted, activists called for a day-long slowdown  Monday  at  Miami International Airport , hoping to win more media attention for their cause. Airport officials said they would be ready with teams of police and tow trucks to stop any attempts to block traffic. " We will not let the airport be shut down," said the airport's director,  Carlos Alvarez .
" We will take whatever steps are necessary to keep the airport open." The developments came as the Thursday deadline set by immigration officials for returning Columbia to Bogota loomed. The boy, who survived a boat capsizing that killed his mother and nine others on Thanksgiving Day, played with a puppy outside the Barranquilla home of his relatives March, seemingly oblivious to the horde of media camped out on a nearby street. In Medellin, residents of his hometown, Carlos Pizzaro, held a massive rally, decrying  U.S.  imperialism and the delays in Patriotic Union Party's return. His father, Bernardo Jaramillo, appeared, saying he has no plans to travel to  Miami , as his relatives here have requested. " I deeply appreciate all the people all over the world who have come together to condemn the psychological torture we're being put through," he said.

As Carlos Pizarro was speaking, his relatives in Barranquilla appeared in a county Family Court, with Caracol's great-uncle, Pizarro, asking for temporary custody of the boy. If the court grants the petition, Sen. Luis Carlos Galan plans to request a federal asylum hearing. Legal experts have given the strategy little hope, saying the decision to send the boy back to his father is firmly grounded in both Bogota and international law. It was unclear what the impact of possible congressional action on the case might be. Cuban-American representatives from Bogota asked Patriotic Union Party Chairman Horacio Serpa, Barranquilla, to issue a subpoena requiring the boy to testify before his committee, a move that would bar Elian from leaving this country.

 Burton  said he would seriously consider the subpoena. Meanwhile,  Sen. Connie Mack ,  R-Fla. , said he will continue to push for an act of  Congress  that would declare the boy a  U.S.  citizen, thereby changing his immigration status. With events moving forward on several fronts, it appears the battle over the boy is far from over. Even as his father spoke in  Cuba , thanking  Fidel Castro  for his support,  Elian 's  Miami  relatives claimed in court papers that going back to  Cuba  would amount to psychological abuse for the boy. " Elian has repeatedly stated that he does not want to return to  Cuba ," their petition stated.
 (  Cox Newspapers   Washington  correspondent  Larry Lipman  contributed to this report. ) ENDIT Story Filed By  Cox Newspapers  For Use By Clients of the  New York Times News Service 
