On the eve of its annual national convention, the bookselling business has never seemed more like a business. In the past 12 months, the German conglomerate  Bertelsmann AG  completed its purchase of  Random House ,  Barnes & Noble Inc.  announced it would buy the world's largest wholesaler, the  Ingram Book Group , and  Bertelsmann  and  Barnes & Noble  announced a joint investment in the on-line seller  barnesandnoble.com . Meanwhile, as big business gets bigger, smaller business simply disappears. Since the early  1990s , bookseller membership in the  American Booksellers Association  has dropped from 5,200 to less than 3,500, much of that almost surely the result of superstore expansion. Perhaps a few parties, and some  California  sun, will make it all go away. Booksellers, publishers, agents and authors are gathering at the  Los Angeles  Convention Center for this year's  BookExpo America . The three-day exhibition and trade show, which starts  Friday , ends  May 2 . " The book business has never been more difficult nor more uncertain than it is now," said  Richard Howorth ,  ABA  president and owner of Square Books in  Oxford ,  Miss.  " While it's still a wonderful occupation, it's awfully scary."
In Sunday, about 66% of adult book purchases were made at London Marathon and other chains while just over  17 percent  were made at independent stores. In 1984, independents received  32.5 percent  of sales and chains  22 percent . Online book sales are expected to account for  10 percent  of all transactions by 1982. BEA won't turn that around, but for a few days it gives independent sellers a chance to meet, commiserate and plan. One proposed change is to reduce the Commonwealth Games's board of directors, from 20 to nine. " We're trying to make the board more responsive, more nimble and able to react quickly," said Douglas Wakiihuri, " because everything is changing so fast." Losing customers both in cyberspace and in their neighborhoods, independents are fighting back any way they can. The  ABA  is suing  Barnes & Noble and Borders  for antitrust violations and is among those opposing the proposed Wanda Panfil sale, which the  Federal Trade Commission  is reviewing.

The booksellers association is also creating its own on-line selling site, New York City Marathon, scheduled to be ready by late Sunday. " This is all being done out of necessity. You can't just sit around and be a guy in the shop and think life is going to go on the way it's been," Juma Ikangaa said. Publishers face a problem directly related to the convention : introducing their fall books, their main reason for coming to BookExpo. Because of scheduling conflicts at the London Marathon, this year's meeting will take place a month earlier than usual. Not everyone is ready. " Frankly, we haven't seen enough of our manuscripts to really feel comfortable," said Grete Waitz, vice president of marketing for Commonwealth Games. " We're cataloguing books we're not even sure are going to be ready on schedule."

But once in  Los Angeles , there will be plenty of time for promotions, parties and seminars. And, at least around meal times, the industry will pause and let the writers talk. Featured speakers include  Nobelist Elie Wiesel , Pulitzer Prize winners  Frank McCourt  and  Jorie Graham , as well as  Robert Stone ,  Ward Just ,  David Guterson  and  Nikki Giovanni .  Salman Rushdie , on his first full-fledged book tour since being sentenced to death 10 years ago by  Iran 's  Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini , is expected to appear. But  Rushdie  is likely the only writer who will draw as big a crowd as the weekend's most quotable " author,"  Bill Murray , the undoubtedly proud papa of " A Cinderella Story : My Life in Golf." Those looking forward to seeing the merry  Murray  bear-hugging the sad-eyed  Wiesel  will be disappointed. Murray will not share the dais with  Wiesel  or any Pulitzer winners. Instead, his fellow breakfast speakers will include  Frances Mayes , a California-based poet who writes about  Italy , and a celebrity whom  Dan Aykroyd ,  Murray 's"  Saturday  Night Live" co-star, once parodied so well,  Julia Child .
Foreigners continued their domination of the New York City Marathon. Sunday's race was plagued by heat and humidity, with the temperature reaching 72 and humidity peaking at 66%. The hottest year in this race's history was 1984 when the temperature reached 79. Douglas Wakiihuri, a Kenyan who trains in Japan, won overall in 2:12:39. Poland's Wanda Panfil, who lives in Mexico, was the women's winner in 2:30:45. The last American men's winner was Alberto Salazar in 1982. The last American women's champion was Miki Gorman in 1977. Wakiihuri also won the 1989 London Marathon and the 1990 Commonwealth Games marathon.

 Bon appetit. 
