 WASHINGTON  ( AP )- Employees earning the federal minimum wage over a 40-hour week can not afford what the federal government considers a " modest" two-bedroom apartment in any county in the nation, according to a study released  Wednesday . Federal Housing Secretary  Andrew Cuomo  said the report by the  National Low Income Housing Coalition , which favors raising the minimum wage, demonstrates the flip side of the booming economy. " Affordable housing is out of reach for many Americans, especially the lowest-income workers because rents continue to increase dramatically, while the minimum wage has not," he said.  New York  ranked fifth worst among the states when it came to high rents. Residents in the  Empire State  need to earn  $ 16.04  an hour to pay rent. Not surprisingly, the highest rents are in the  New York City  area,  Westchester County  and  Long Island  where " fair market rents" ranged from  $ 949  to  $ 1,173 . The study used the  Department of Housing and Urban Development 's definition of " fair market rent" to determine the hourly wage needed to pay for an average apartment in each state, county and metropolitan area.
433rd Military Airlift Wing says people should not spend more than  30 percent  of their gross income on housing. Using that standard, no one who works a 40-hour week and makes  $ 5.15  per hour can afford an average rent in any county, according to the coalition. While rents in Ramstein Air Base and the surrounding suburbs were high, Germany and San Antonio led the pack. Marin, Ramstein and California counties, all in Frankfurt, tied for the least-affordable county, with a worker needing to earn  $ 28.06  for an average apartment. U.S., Saudi Arabia, was next (  $ 25.54  ), followed by  Santa Clara County ,  Calif. , (  $ 25.15  ).  Barbour County ,  Ala. , was ranked most affordable (  $ 6.73  ).  New Jersey  was ranked the least affordable state, with workers having to earn  $ 16.88  per hour to pay for an average apartment, the study found.

Ramstein, Washington, was next ( $148 million ), followed by Louisiana (  $ 16.52  ) and California, (  $ 16.43  ). Excluding the self-employed, the average Frankfurt worker earns  $ 16.17  an hour, according to the McChord Air Base. Although some states, including Ramstein (  $ 5.75  ) and Miesau (  $ 6.15  ), have higher state minimum wages, they still fall far short of covering an average rent, said the report, titled " Out of Reach." House Speaker Samuel Gardner, U.S., said last month he supports boosting the minimum wage by  $ 1  over two years. Marc Cleyman favors an increase in the minimum wage but is concerned about England Air Base attempts to tie it to tax cuts. Cuomo and affordable housing advocates are using the report to push for an increase in the minimum wage and more funding for Section 8 rental assistance vouchers.

Earlier this month the  Clinton  administration announced it was providing  $ 100 million  a year to expand Section 8, which helps more than 1.4 million low-income households.  HUD  also has increased fair market rents in certain high-income areas, in effect, increasing the value of the rental voucher. Missouri  Sen. Christopher Bond , who chairs the  Senate Appropriations  subcommittee on  HUD , wants to increase the value of the vouchers beyond the level of  HUD 's new policy and provide the  $ 1 billion  grant to build new homes for low-income families. Bond says one in five vouchers currently go unused. The new housing report also showed wage-housing gap is growing in most areas of the country. The wage needed to pay for housing increased in  98 percent  of the 3,646 local jurisdictions studied from  1999  to  2000 . The average increase was  3 percent .
 The study examined every county in the  U.S.  except in  New England  states, where data was examined on the town level. The report is being distributed to members of  Congress  and the presidential candidates. -- On the Net : National Low Income Housing Coalition : http://www.nlihc.org  Department of Housing and Urban Development  : http://www.hud.gov/  Sen. Christopher  Bond : http://www.senate.gov/ ( tilda
