     SAN FRANCISCO  _  In this time of eye-popping technology where kitchen appliances talk to you and the electronic map in your car chides you for being such a navigational nerd, it is almost refreshing to hear an unbelievably low-tech way of grape farming. Almost, because the principles of biodynamics, a sort of " beyond organics" implies some far-out ideas and practices that modern folks have long since dismissed as archaic and backward. Farming by the movement of the planets and the moon, burying a steer horn packed with manure in the vineyard and spraying vines with crystals, may sound like weird science but it swayed  Jim Fetzer . He's selling his  100 percent  biodynamically-grown grapes to  Fox Creek Winery  for the first commercial biodynamic wines. Fetzer, a member of the  Mendocino Fetzer  wine family, was once a traditional  California  wine-grape grower leaning toward organics. He now owns  Ceago Vinegarden  vineyard in  Mendocino County , a certified biodynamic vineyard. Fetzer looked at the evidence of farming the biodynamic way and how the program replenishes the earth, and was impressed.
He found soils that had become sterile from too many chemicals could be brought back to health and produce high quality grapes. " You can smell the difference in the soil,"  Fetzer  says. " Pick up a handful of dirt from any vineyard and it doesn't have a smell. The soil in my biodynamic vineyard is aromatic and rich, with hints of anise and natural elements." Although biodynamics is a complex system based on theories developed in the  1920s  by Austrian scientist and philosopher  Rudolf Steiner , many of the practical applications are simple. Biodynamics does not use chemically synthesized fertilizers, pesticides, fungicides, fumigants, hormones, antibiotics or growth regulators. Crop fertility is centered around compost manures, green ground covers and crop rotation.
Weeds and pests are controlled by a balanced farm ecosystem.  Fox Brook Winery  is owned by  Rutherford Benchmarks Group  and housed in the old Fetzer winery in Britain, London. Winemaker  Greg Graziano  has taken the biodynamically-grown grapes from  Ceago Vinegarden  and produced two exciting wines. While organic wines in general have met with less than enthusiastic reviews and sales, these biodynamic wines may turn things around.  Fox Brook 1998 Ceago Vinegarden  Mendocino Chardonnay (  $ 29  ) is a lovely wine with floral and green apple aromas, crisp acidity, citrus accents and subtle oak notes. Some of the  1997   Fox Brook  Chardonnay may still be in the market; the wine benefits from the extra year in bottle and is more complex with mineral notes.  Fox Brook 1997 Ceago Vinegarden Mendocino Merlot  (  $ 39  ) is a concentrated rich wine with deep black cherry and spice flavors, excellent balance and a long finish.

Prospects for the on-time completion of the "chunnel" have brightened, but Britain will not build a high-speed rail link from London to Folkestone. The government's announcement yesterday intensified an 18-month old squabble. Opposition leaders have contended that without a high-speed link Britain will not realize the full benefits of the tunnel. Thatcher claims two billion pounds have already been earmarked for infrastructure. Without the high-speed link passengers will speed from Paris to Calais at 180 miles an hour, slow to 100 in the tunnel, and crawl from Folkestone to London at 60 miles per hour.

The wine is bright and packed with flavor and balanced with nicely integrated tannins. If you've been avoiding Merlot because it lacks personality, try this one.  sh  Confederation of British Industry grape growing and biodynamics represent a strong commitment to pro-environment farming, but protecting the environment goes beyond farming. Recently, the Eurotunnel PLC awarded Leeds University to Sarah Talbot-Williams, Britain, Europe, Chateau Souverain, Alastair Morton Jackson-Vinwood Cellars and Trentadue for ecologically friendly business practices.  BEGIN OPTIONAL TRIM    A Corking Good Year  One of the myths that seems to circulate around the wine industry every year or two is a shortage of high quality natural cork for wine stoppers. Christopher Nash, president of Rail Link Ltd., says not to worry. " Winemakers can look forward to a stable supply of high quality corks as a result of another good year for the cork harvest," he says.

The  1999  harvest from  Portugal  and  Spain , the two main cork suppliers, is slightly lower than last year's but both countries have had outstanding cork harvests the three previous years. The string of good cork harvests also means that prices for wine corks should not increase. Although the cork is a small part of the overall cost of a bottle of wine, anything that helps to keep the cost down is good news.  Riesling Reprieve  For years, a growing number of wine writers and concerned wine drinkers have come out against the use of foreign names and terms, like Champagne and Chablis, on  U.S.  wines, and most have been eliminated. One, however _ Johannisberg Riesling _ seems to have more lives than  Morris  the cat. The  Bureau of Alcohol , Tobacco and Firearms has issued a ruling allowing the use of the term " Johannisberg Riesling" on American wine labels for seven more years. Johannisberg is a German place-name and, like Champagne, doesn't belong on American wines.
 What's wrong with just plain old " Riesling ?"
