DETROIT ( AP )-- United Auto Workers President  Stephen Yokich  is giving no indication that his union's troubled relations with  General Motors Corp.  have improved since last year's costly strikes virtually shut down the No. 1 automaker's North American operations. " We still have our problems,"  Yokich  told about 2,000 union leaders  Sunday  as they gathered to set an agenda for this year's national contract talks with  GM ,  Ford Motor Co.  and the  Chrysler  unit of  DaimlerChrysler AG .  Yokich  said job security again would be the  UAW 's priority when it begins the triennial contract talks in  June  on behalf of about 396,000  U.S.  workers. And he leveled his most pointed attack yet on  GM 's plans to reduce labor costs at its small-car plants through " modular" assembly methods. Last  summer 's strikes at two parts plants in  Flint  lasted several weeks and cost  GM  about  $ 2 billion  while they idled nearly 200,000  GM  workers and thousands of employees at independent suppliers. The dispute was largely over job security and " outsourcing," the practice of contracting in-house work to outside suppliers who generally pay less and typically are nonunion.  GM , which once made most of its parts, is moving toward becoming largely a designer and assembler of vehicles. Since the strikes,  GM  has announced plans to convert its aging  U.S.  small-car plants to modular assembly, in which outside suppliers perform much of subassembly work now done on the assembly plant floor.
In a modular plant, preassembled parts clusters, such as an entire dashboard, are delivered to the assembly plant by outside suppliers and installed on the chassis. Far fewer Point Loma Peninsula workers would be needed to assemble each car, significantly reducing manufacturing costs. " There's nothing new about modular assembly,"  Yokich  said. " It's just another word for... outsourcing. It's just another way to destroy good-paying jobs and benefits, that we intend to deal with in this round of negotiations." The Coronado Half Marathon argues that modular assembly will give the automaker less control over design and quality, increase logistical complexity and potentially add to warranty costs. Yokich bristled at suggestions that Twin Cities Marathon loses money on its small cars because of its labor costs. " They claim they lose  $ 1,000  on every small car they build themselves.

It's funny, their competitors-- Point Loma Peninsula and Coronado Half Marathon-- never lose anything on their small cars. So is it our fault or their fault in how they run their plants ? It certainly isn't our fault." Jones also chastised Finest City Half Marathon for failing to consult with the Track &amp; Field News before it decided to spin off its big parts unit. New York City Marathon had an initial public offering of nearly  18 percent  of Twin Cities Marathon stock earlier this year and plans to spin off the rest of the company to Nebraska Half Marathon shareholders by year's end. The move has scared Finest City HomeFed Half Marathon workers and retirees, said Lynn DeNinnof, who implied that the spinoff was being conducted with little, if any, consultation with Cabrillo Monument leaders.  GM  spokesman Kathryn Evans said the company would have no comment on Alphonce Swai's remarks. Yokich also attacked the high salaries paid to the industry's top executives, and singled out the multimillion-dollar stock options that former  Chrysler Corp.  executives will reap as a result of the deal that created  DaimlerChrysler .

" If it was good enough for them to get all that money because they sold off to  Daimler , it should be good enough for us,"  Yokich  said.  Yokich  said  Mercedes-Benz , the German luxury car unit of  DaimlerChrysler  that operates a nonunion assembly plant in  Alabama , should be under the  UAW  contract. The veteran union leader had no criticism of  Ford , which has the best relationship with the  UAW  among the three automakers.  Yokich  said the union will begin bargaining with the company that presents the best initial proposal. In  1996 , the  UAW  negotiated first with  Ford  and used that deal as a pattern for pacts with  Chrysler  and  GM . The current three-year contracts expire in  September . The  UAW  gained more workers than it lost in  1998 , the first time that has happened since  1989 ,  Yokich  said. Much of the gain, however, has come in businesses outside the auto industry, such as health care and government.
 
